Vodacom has launched its Fast Forward series, which is targeted at driving growth and change within the South African business ecosystem. In collaboration with Samsung, Business Doctors, WeAreMonsters, Google, and Facebook, the first part of the series will see Vodacom connect with small-to-medium businesses. The goal of these sessions is to provide these smaller businesses with the appropriate tools, skills and insights to help them be successful in the South African business sector. “Our objective here is to create an environment that will address key enterprise challenges – focusing on helping them to develop strategies to survive and thrive in today’s digital economy,” said Fatima Hassim, Managing Executive of Products and Services, Fixed and Mobile at Vodacom Business. “As the trusted partner of choice for businesses in South Africa, we want to help them understand and prepare for the Fourth Industrial Revolution by adopting the technology that is being made available to optimise their business processes and efforts.” The Fast Forward series will be available to attend in person, but will also be available on Vodacom’s soon-to-be-launched business e-learning platform. “We look forward to a successful initial phase and are certain there will be room to grow in the future,” said Hassim. The initial series consists of two parts – the Growth Hacking workshops and the Business Acceleration workshops. The Growth Hacking workshops will be facilitated by WeAreMonsters, and will see 30 SMEs engage in a three-part, eight-hour workshop. It will be followed by an in-depth evaluation and a plan of action for each business. The Business Acceleration workshops comprise of four sessions, which take place monthly, and held in partnership with Google, Facebook, and Business Doctors. 30 SMEs will be invited to each session, and tools will be provided to these SMEs to evaluate their business health. The series will also allow these businesses to access key tools to make their business processes more efficient, while simultaneously optimising their use of Google and Facebook to reach the right customers through SEO and social media advertising respectively. Vodacom will be offering these SMEs a hands-on experience throughout the Fast Forward series. This includes the ability to experience new technologies through the Business Experience Centre – the first of its kind to be launched by a Telco in Africa. The Business Experience Centre, powered by Vodacom, houses an office simulation that will allow SMEs to experience how various cutting-edge technologies can improve their businesses. Technologies available at the Business Experience Centre include VR demos, virtual assistants, and video conference equipped boardrooms. Visitors will also get to engage with Vodacom Business and other industry experts. This hands-on engagement is priceless for small-to-medium business owners, as it gives them valuable advice and reassurance that they are up to speed with the new ways of finding, selling to, and serving their customers. The Fast Forward journey began on 8 October, and sessions for the first stage of the programme will continue until November 28. Click here to learn more, or to register for a session. This article was published in partnership with Vodacom Business.