Amazon has said that its plans to launch an Amazon Web Services (AWS) Region for Africa in Cape Town are still on track. The company’s infrastructure region in Cape Town is scheduled to launch during the first half of 2020. Amazon gave an update on its Cape Town data centres during a media event regarding cloud security in Amazon Web Services. When asked about plans to set up an infrastructure region in Johannesburg, Amazon said that its doesn’t have further plans that it can share. In October 2018, Amazon announced that it would launch an AWS Infrastructure Region in South Africa. The Cape Town AWS Region will be comprised of three availability zones. When the region launches, local AWS customers will be able to run their workloads and store their data on servers in South Africa, reducing latency significantly. “The addition of the AWS Africa (Cape Town) Region will also enable organisations to provide lower latency to end users across Sub-Saharan Africa,” Amazon said. It will also give more African organisations access to advanced technologies such as artificial intelligence, machine learning, Internet of Things (IoT), and mobile services, Amazon stated. “Having built the original version of Amazon EC2 in our Cape Town development centre 14 years ago, we’ve been able to witness first-hand the technical talent and potential in Africa,” said AWS CEO Andy Jassy. The company opened a development centre in Cape Town in 2004, and in 2015, it opened an AWS office in Johannesburg. Amazon said that several South African companies already use AWS, including Absa, Investec, Old Mutual, Pick n Pay, Standard Bank, and Discovery Vitality. “For the consumers of our customers it will mean the game they play, how they digitally shop or bank, or the video they watch will respond faster – offering an enhanced experience,” the regional manager for AWS Sub-Saharan Africa, Geoff Brown, told MyBroadband. Following the announcement that Amazon was building data centres in Cape Town, the company has embarked on a recruitment drive. BusinessTech reported that the number of available jobs at Amazon in Cape Town had grown from 50 last year to 118 in July. This recruitment drive appears to be ongoing, with 114 jobs listed in Cape Town on Amazon’s career portal.