So, you are a local South African business that is ready to start marketing your new product, but are wondering where to buy barcodes in South Africa. Our team has done some research and come up with some good options! Here are the 5 best barcode generating companies in South Africa that specialise in the registration and design of high-resolution retail barcodes. This website is a great first port of call if you are looking to generate barcodes for your South African business for the first time. It provides a multitude of useful information on who the legitimate barcode sellers are and answers almost all FAQs on barcodes in South Africa you could ever need. Buy Barcodes SA is one of the local barcode generators in South Africa and supply first-class retail barcodes at as little as R1.99 per barcode – a steal really and a dream for a small startup business with only a few products. All barcodes purchased through Buy Barcodes are registered and verified for use in retail stores. One of the biggest perks of this company is that they provide you with your unique barcode in just 1 business hour after the purchase process is complete. https://www.sabarcodes.co.za/ SA Barcodes is South Africa’s oldest and largest online barcode reseller. They are based in Cape Town but deliver throughout South Africa. SA Barcodes sell fully registered EAN and UPC codes at excellent rates and offer an array of barcode packages to suit your requirements. Much like the other barcode sellers, their barcodes come with a guarantee that they are unique and a certificate of ownership to cement this. What is best about SA Barcodes is that they offer a discount for returning customers, which is great for small businesses that want to grow their inventory over time. https://www.barcodesolutions.co.za/ Based in Johannesburg and another great place to buy barcodes in South Africa that are registered and internationally recognized, and a more suitable option for medium and large businesses. A really attractive quality of Barcode Solutions is that they offer same day delivery on all daytime orders, so if you are in a rush, you can’t go wrong here! https://barcodes123.co.za/ Another great option for buying barcodes in South Africa, this new local barcode generator is small and up-and-coming, but nevertheless provides great product diversity and professional service! They also offer a great barcode package deal with and promise a 60-minute delivery time on barcode purchases in South Africa. Now that you are armed with this knowledge you are ready to go! Happy barcoding, and best of luck for your entrepreneurial journey! This article was published in partnership with SA Barcodes.