It may be an ideal time for you to re-evaluate your monthly expenses. Perhaps your existing car insurance is too expensive now? How can you go about finding the best car insurance deal online in 2019? Disclaimer: Do not consider the below information as financial advice. Please consult with a certified financial advisor if you would like to buy any car insurance. Online shopping is highly convenient, and there is a world of information at your fingertips online. Nevertheless, how should you research car insurance prices online? There are many options. Car insurance comparison websites and car insurance company websites are accessible via a quick Google search. Perhaps chat to friends and family if you are still unsure of which car insurers to consider. It could help if you did not automatically exclude smaller insurers from your research, as they may still offer good deals. Compare similar offerings from different insurers to help guide your decision. There are several aspects to consider when looking for the best car insurance deal. Consider online car insurance deals from several reputable insurers and shortlist several insurers’ offers. It doesn’t hurt to ask. You may be eligible for a discount on your premium. For example, you may benefit from a monthly saving if you insure more than one car with a car insurance company. Car insurance prices are usually dependent on a person’s risk profile. A risk profile is a personal profile that insurers create for you based on several factors from which they determine the level of risk that would be associated with insuring your car. So, if you reduce common risk factors, then your premium could be lower. For example, how secure is the spot where you park your car at night? Improving your security could help. Take your time before you decide on your online car insurance deal. Buying car insurance online is quick and easy as many insurers offer this option. Nevertheless, read the policy document thoroughly before you sign up. If in doubt, ask the insurer for clarity about anything that you are unsure of before you buy the car insurance. Be sure to ask your financial advisor for other tips on finding the best car insurance deal online as well. Now it is time to make your final selection for the affordable car insurance deal that suits both your needs and that save you money too. This article was published in partnership with Prime Meridian Direct.