As technology continues to evolve, it has become increasingly important to have access to the right infrastructure for your business. IBM Power Systems servers are designed to execute your business’s most advanced and process-critical data applications – ensuring that you don’t have to worry about server workload management. IBM Power servers are multi-functional, capable of running mission-critical workloads and are able to support future AI implementations. They are driven by a built-in PowerVM virtualisation, which ensures that the next-generation IBM Power9 systems are ready for the cloud. This ensures that you can implement cloud environments that best suit your business, and provide the best performance for what you require. IBM’s Power9 servers have been developed to handle the most demanding, data-intensive computing that you could possibly put them through. This ensures that businesses are able to access critical insights from the efficient processing of data. These servers boast industry-leading reliability and security, ensuring that you can rest assured knowing that your important data is protected from issues caused by human error or malicious parties. As proof of its reliability, Power Systems servers were ranked first for every major reliability criterion by the ITIC Global Server Hardware Reliability Report. Power9 servers also offer some of the best value-for-money on the market. This is because superior core performance and memory bandwidth enables these servers to provide impressive levels of output – offering superior price-to-performance benefits. Power9 servers are available across a variety of areas, including Power9 for Linux, Power9 for Enterprise, and Power9 for Enterprise AI, Deep Learning and Machine Learning. IBM’s Power servers aren’t limited to their impressive hardware, however. IBM Hyperconverged systems, powered by Nutanix, provide IT customers with the capability to dramatically simplify their data centre operations. This is achieved through the utilisation of the Nutanix cloud platform, which is capable of transforming complicated IT infrastructure into an efficient virtualisation. Hyperconverged systems are designed to be scaled both up and down without causing the traditional bottlenecks associated with traditional architectures. Instead, scaling can be done in minutes simply by adding new nodes to your distributed architecture – ensuring that processing power is shared equally and doesn’t starve other processes. Some of the other benefits of IBM Hyperconverged systems include: Tectight is a leading South African IT infrastructure solutions provider that specialises in the delivery and maintenance of servers, storage, backup, and cloud applications. They have developed a great reputation in the South African market for offering service and solutions that solve their clients’ needs. Tectight is a Platinum Business Partner of IBM, and offers IBM Power solutions that can optimise your business’ data application requirements. Click here to learn more about Tectight’s IBM Power server solutions This article was published in partnership with IBM Techtight.