Takealot has big plans for the Black Friday 2019 shopping season, with the online retailer gearing up for a massive surge in traffic and revenue. The company’s sales period will include a five-day Blue Dot Sale that begins on Black Friday (29 November) and will offer a range of new deals throughout the weekend, as well as Cyber Monday and Takealot Tuesday. During this period, Takealot will cut prices by up to 60% on thousands of items. The retailer will also launch early Black Friday deals starting from 24 November, with fresh deals added daily. The Superbalist Showdown will run from 29 November to 3 December, with up to 70% off more than 15,000 items. Superbalist shoppers will also have early access to Black Friday deals on selected days throughout November. Early Black Friday price cuts on both Takealot and Superbalist will not be beaten on Black Friday itself, meaning there is no reason not to buy these products immediately. Last year’s Black Friday sale period was great for Takealot, with the retailer seeing a 125% increase in gross merchandise value (GMV) compared to 2017. The company expects impressive growth for 2019, too – Takealot CEO Kim Reid told MyBroadband that the retailer expects its revenue to increase by 80% compared to Black Friday 2018. Last year, Takealot made R196 million on Black Friday, and the company hopes to reach around R353 million in revenue this year. Reid said that the company also expects significant growth in web traffic this year. In 2018, there were between 70,000 and 100,000 active users on Takealot’s website during Black Friday. Reid said that this number is expected to increase by 120% this year. This increase means that Takealot’s web infrastructure will be under more strain than ever before, but Reid said the company has taken steps to reduce the possibility of service interruptions and issues with online payments. To facilitate the larger number of customers, Takealot will also grow its call centre staff complement from 380 to 750 for Black Friday 2019. Takealot is also stepping up its distribution infrastructure and delivery process to ensure it services customers efficiently on Black Friday. The company expects to ship at least one order every second, with roughly 10,000 boxes leaving their warehouses every hour over the shopping season. “After expanding our Johannesburg distribution centre (DC), our warehouse storage space now stands at 75,000m2,” Reid said. “We house over 3.7 million items at any given time, and have opened 47 Takealot Pickup Points in the Eastern Cape, Western Cape, Gauteng, Kwa-Zulu Natal, Limpopo, Free State and Mpumalanga for order collections and returns, with more to open in the coming months.” Reid said that Takealot had focussed on successfully meeting the massive growth in orders over the Black Friday period by scaling its distribution and delivery processes as well as its customer-facing infrastructure.