The next-generation Netgear Orbi Wi-Fi 6 Mesh System from Duxbury Networking is designed for households that have a multitude of always-on and always-connected smart home devices, many of which are running high-bandwidth applications like streaming 4K/8K Ultimate HD connections across multiple screens. “Wi-Fi 6 provides more streams, so there is an increased capacity for more traffic, thereby ensuring that the fastest high-speed Wi-Fi connected devices are not stalled by the slower ones,” says Tobie van Schalkwyk, product manager for Netgear at Duxbury Networking. The Orbi Wi-Fi 6 can bring multi-gigabit internet speeds to every part of a household, providing greater coverage and connection capacity. “The system provides 12 streams of Wi-Fi 6 and speeds of up to 6 Gbps for 4K/8K UHD streaming, lag-free gaming and no buffering. With four times the network capacity of Wi-Fi 5 (802.11ac), Orbi Wi-Fi 6 enables high-speed connectivity for all connected consumer devices,” Van Schalkwyk points out. Orbi Wi-Fi 6 scales to provide gigabit internet services to multi-gigabit using a 2.5 Gbps WAN port or by using link aggregation to combine two Gigabit Ethernet (LAN and WAN) ports together. It uses NETGEAR’s patented tri-band mesh technology with a patented dedicated backhaul to provide the ultimate smart home experience with seamless roaming and consistent speeds irrespective of where devices are in the home. The Orbi app allows easy setup, use and management of the system is. Users can quickly and readily create a guest network, view connected devices, and perform speed tests. The Orbi Wi-Fi 6 also works with Amazon Alexa and the Google Assistant so users can use voice commands to control their home Wi-Fi network. “With 4×4 radios on both 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz fronthaul, as well as a 5 GHz backhaul, Orbi Wi-Fi 6 is designed to cover any home that has a host of connected devices. Along with the enhanced networks speed and increased capacity, Wi-Fi 6 also introduces efficiency and improved battery life for mobile devices. We invite users to try out the system to see the connectivity benefits it will bring them in both the short- and long-term,” says Van Schalkwyk. For more information contact Duxbury Networking, +27 (0) 11 351 9800, info@duxnet.co.za, www.duxbury.co.za This article was published in partnership with Duxbury Networking.