Red Hat is conducting its global roadshow called Red Hat Forum, which recently came to the Gallagher Convention Centre in Johannesburg. Speaking at the event, Red Hat EMEA sales vice president Michel Isnard outlined the company’s ambitious plan to change the world of software. Red Hat is the world’s leading provider of enterprise open-source solutions, including high-performing Linux, cloud, container, and Kubernetes technologies. The company helps customers to integrate new and existing IT applications, develop cloud-native applications, and automate, secure, and manage complex environments. Isnard said that Red Hat’s plan to change the world of software relies on people working together according to the values of open-source innovation. “We can call it disruption or digital transformation, but the reality is the world we are working in is changing,” Isnard said. “We at Red Hat want to change the software industry – we are a software company and we want to change how the world thinks about software. That was the big idea when this company was created nearly 30 years ago.” Isnard outlined the company’s four bold goals which guide Red Hat’s strategy in accomplishing this change. These goals are summarised below: Isnard said that open-source is now the hotbed of innovation across the enterprise space, and Linux is the cornerstone from which people can build innovative and agile solutions. “We need something to allow us to make integration, management, and automation as simple as can be,” Isnard said. “Linux is that common ground.” He added that Red Hat aims to make open hybrid the default cloud architecture for businesses around the world. “Whether you are doing things within your data centre or the public cloud, we want to help you,” he said. “We believe in this open hybrid approach.” The open-source nature of Linux development means that it enables innovation and is the ideal foundation for open hybrid architecture. “Linux welcomes innovation every day – it is the DNA of open-source,” Isnard said. The evolving nature of cloud-based applications also requires faster data processing as well as low-latency operations, which is one reason why Red Hat aims to bring the data centre to the hybrid edge. “In a world which is hybrid, you can get flexibility and elasticity, but the reality is that the cloud also brings complexity – especially when you have to manage private data,” Isnard said. Using the example of a self-driving car, he said that in this case, you need to offer processed data and outcomes in a split-second, removing the possibility of sending information back to the data centre for computation. Extending the data centre to the hybrid edge allows for applications and solutions which are more reactive and able to to provide information and decisions on-the-fly. Isnard said that Red Hat’s last goal towards changing the world of software is to bring open-source technology and the Red Hat philosophy to the Universe. “When I say Red Hat, I am talking about us and the extended family,” Isnard said. “We work with our partners, clients, and communities exactly the same way we work internally.” “Open source is bigger than Red Hat, and we want to bring it to the entire universe.” Isnard said that open-source communities are an indispensable connection for Red Hat, and the company’s own developers are significant contributors to open-source projects around the world. He added that all of the latest technological innovations, such as machine learning and IoT, were birthed in an open-source environment. This is why Red Hat sees open-source development and solutions as the future of innovation, and why it plans to change the world of software to embrace Linux, open hybrid cloud architecture, and open-source collaboration. This article was published in partnership with Red Hat.