DStv Now users may have noticed that they are sometimes shown unskippable adverts before they can view content on the platform. Unskippable adverts are often frowned upon by media viewers, as they can be invasive and frustrating. MultiChoice told MyBroadband that it implements unskippable adverts on its DStv Now platform to raise extra funds. According to the company, these funds enable it to keep DStv Now a free value-add to DStv subscribers’ packages, rather than have it function as a separate, paid service. “It’s one way to help fund the continuing engineering investment we’re making in DStv Now, and helps us keep the service as a free add-on for DStv subscribers,” said MultiChoice. According to MultiChoice, only adverts which run for less than 15 seconds are sometimes unskippable on its platform. This feature is not new, added MultiChoice, as it has been in place on some DStv Now platforms for over a year. MultiChoice said it currently has no plans to implement similar adverts on other digital content platforms that it operates, such as Showmax. This is because Showmax is a paid service, meaning it is already capable of sustaining itself. MultiChoice recently released its interim results for the six month period ending 30 September 2019, which showed that it has seen a significant increase in the number of DStv Now and Showmax users. The company reported a year-on-year increase of 48% in monthly active users on its digital platforms, as well as a 68% increase in the number of play events on Showmax. Part of this increase could be attributed to new DStv Now features, such as the ability to create up to six personalised profiles and watchlists for later viewing. The platform also underwent an overhaul recently, including a new user interface and improved information delivery. DStv Now has also stated that its record for the largest streaming load ever was broken during the recent 2019 Rugby World Cup Final. However, the Rugby World Cup period was not without its problems for the platform, as it suffered several issues relating to downtime. According to MultiChoice, the issues with the platform were related to the high number of login attempts taking place simultaneously. “All customers that were logged in ahead of the start of the match were able to view the game seamlessly, however, there was a problem with the influx of fresh logins on the platform, which had to be individually verified, causing a delay in accessing the platform,” MultiChoice said. These issues were resolved ahead of the final, however, with the online broadcast of the match proceeding without major issue.