It is of critical importance that your business offers customers an easy and efficient way of accessing your customer support channels. As technology has evolved, cloud solutions have become increasingly popular options for achieving this due to their efficiency and flexibility. For this reason, the market is now flooded with cloud-based contact centre solutions that claim to offer your business superior efficiency. However, digging deeper into these products will allow you to uncover various limitations that could hamper your customers’ experience. One of the first things to look for in a cloud-based contact centre solution is where it is hosted. Most cloud solutions that are advertised are hosted in either European or North American data centres, rather than locally. This is a significant issue for two primary reasons: Many cloud solutions also only offer support that operates from outside of South Africa – meaning that there is no one local to contact if something goes wrong with your contact centre solution. Another consideration is whether the contact centre solution uses a multi-tenant architecture. Multi-tenancy offers significant flexibility due to its ability to allow for the speedy deployment of more resources, or the scaling back of the service during quieter times. In the same vein, many solutions do not use a modular deployment model, meaning that you could be paying for features and functionalities that you are not using, or do not require. The inability to customise your specific solution to meet your business’ requirements is a big problem, as it is inefficient and expensive. Many solutions only offer a pre-defined or packaged set of features which may not be optimal for your business. This expense can be mitigated by the use of an “on-demand” or “pay-per-use” model, where you only pay for what you actually use each month, without having to commit to an upfront or defined term contract. This allows for easy scaling, as well as significant savings. Pivotal offers a comprehensive cloud solution that does not suffer from any of the aforementioned red flags. Pivotal on Demand is the obvious choice for businesses looking for a cloud-based solution that allows them to upscale, downscale, and customise their contact centre solution with ease. With Pivotal on Demand, the cost of your solution is calculated on a per agent, per month, and per functionality basis.  This means that you don’t pay for unnecessary features that you don’t use, while their multi-tenant architecture ensures that adding or removing agents or features is incredibly simple. The solution is hosted locally and is fully redundant – ensuring that you call centre remains compliant to local regulations and operational at all times. Pivotal also offers Open APIs for easy integration with your business system, and a simple, web-based UI system that is functional on any browser. This digital, WebRTC enabled system means that you do not require physical phones and can operate across multiple channels with ease. Data and analytics are updated in real time, and it is incredibly easy to customise and configure your dashboards. Click here to learn more about how Pivotal on Demand can optimise your contact centre This article was published in partnership with Pivotal.