MultiChoice has been a part of South African life for years, growing from a small broadcaster working out of a caravan to a corporation encompassing everything from satellite broadcasting to online streaming. DStv offers South Africans access to a wide variety of content, from the latest shows aired simultaneously with international broadcasts to an impressive selection of live sports. One of the most popular offerings on DStv is what South Africans have referred to for years as the “Sunday night movie” – a dedicated time slot on Sunday evening for the latest blockbuster film available on M-Net. The Sunday night movie is aired at 20:00, after Carte Blanche at 19:00, and has held its special recurring timeslot since its inception. M-Net’s Sunday night movie is also older than most people think – the time slot was first launched in 1988. MyBroadband spoke to M-Net channels director Jan du Plessis about the history of the Sunday night movie and how the films are selected. “When M-Net launched as the first terrestrial pay-television service in 1986, movies played a vital role in the M-Net schedule, alongside sport,” du Plessis said. “One of the first pay-off lines for the channel happened to be ‘own the silver screen’.” “At the time, South Africans could only watch a variety of movie blockbusters in the cinema or with VHS or Betamax video rentals.” The SABC did screen some movies at the time, but M-Net’s unique selling point was that it offered subscribers the best Hollywood films without advertising breaks. “In August 1988, M-Net introduced the local actuality show Carte Blanche on Sundays at 19:00, which was followed by the biggest blockbuster movie at 20:00,” du Plessis said. “The combination of Carte Blanche and the Sunday night movie quickly turned into a South African institution.” “Even though the television landscape has changed over these 32 years – with the addition of multi-channels on digital satellite television and platforms such as Catch Up and DStv Now – M-Net 101 has maintained its position as the number one channel offering for DStv Premium.” Additionally, the M-Net Sunday night combination of Carte Blanche and the blockbuster movie premiere also remains the most-watched content on M-Net 101. When it comes to selecting the Sunday night movie, M-Net has a team which conducts research and curates the latest blockbuster films. “We curate the best and most popular box office hits for Sunday nights and our subscribers still enjoy this careful curation,” du Plessis said. “M-Net’s experienced and talented movie acquisitions and scheduling teams are responsible for selecting the Sunday night blockbusters.” “Based on research, they look at the inventory of not-seen-before on television movies acquired from the world’s top studios from which they select wide appeal commercially successful films.” The careful selection of the Sunday night movie, in addition to the formula of pairing it with Carte Blanche, has undoubtedly played a major role in the success of the time slot, making it a staple in South Africa’s media diet. Many DStv viewers would have noted that the Sunday night movie has been moved back until 21:00 while Trackers has been broadcast in the 20:00 time slot. Du Plessis said that once Trackers ends on 24 November, the blockbuster movie will be back at 20:00 again.