Investing online can be a lucrative exercise, but there are many things you need to consider when picking the right platform. This is why it is important that you do your research before investing online. Signing up to the wrong platform can result in you making poor investment choices, which ultimately means you don’t make money. Here are four of the most important elements to consider when signing up to an online trading platform. If you want to make properly informed choices about which stocks to invest in, it is of critical importance that you have as much valuable data as possible. This is why it is important to choose an online investment platform that offers you with the relevant data and graphs. Working out the best stocks to invest in is complicated enough – why add to your work with a confusing interface? The best online investment platforms are easy to navigate, and present all necessary data in a manner that is clear and comprehensive. If you’re investing your hard-earned money, you want assurance that it cannot be stolen by malicious online parties. This is why you should pick a platform that uses a strong security solution, and has the backing of highly-reputable entities. Avoid lesser known platforms, as they could be fly-by-night scams looking to take your money! The point of investing your money is to make as much money as possible. High investment costs eat away at your profit margins, making your investment less lucrative. This is why it is important to choose an online investment platform that charges low commission rates. Mexem fits all the above criteria with ease. It offers a plethora of data formats to ensure that you can access all important information in a way that is easy to understand. Their platform is simple to use, which ensures that you can focus on your ultimate goal – making money on the stock market. You can rest assured that your money is safe with Mexem – they are backed by Interactive Brokers, which is the largest electronic broker in the US. Mexem also employs excellent security systems to protect your information from malicious parties. With Mexem, you will also be accessing some of the lowest rates in South Africa. Mexem’s commission rates are some of the lowest in the industry, meaning that you will ultimately be able to make more money working through them. Click here to learn more about Mexem’s online investment platform. This article was published in partnership with Mexem.