PwC, in partnership with Opinium Research, has published its research into South African consumer intentions ahead of Black Friday and Cyber Monday. According to this research, consumers are planning on spending 36% more this year compared to 2018. This amounts to an expected average per-consumer spend of R3,812 during the Black Friday and Cyber Monday period. 85% of South Africans said that they were planning on buying something this year, or were considering buying something if they found a good-enough deal. PwC said that online sales are expected to account for 43.4% of all purchases this Black Friday. This is compared to 50.4% in brick-and-mortar stores, while virtual assistant purchases will account for 5.7%. “On average, youth shoppers (aged 18-34) intend to make 51.5% of their purchases through online channels and voice recognition services, while those shoppers in the age bracket 35-54 intend to make 51.9% of their purchases through the same avenues,” said PwC. In contrast, only 35% of buyers older than 55 will shop online or via voice recognition services over Black Friday. Research also showed that online retailers offered some of the best customer service during Black Friday 2018. According to the research, social media will be the top source of deals information this year, along with television advertising. PwC highlighted that South Africans spend two hours and 48 minutes on social media each day, which is why advertising on these platforms is so effective during Black Friday. Facebook in particular is used by 96% of big brands to advertise deals and engage with customers – making it a hotbed for Black Friday and Cyber Monday deals. In total, South Africans spend a total of eight hours and 25 minutes per day connected to the Internet – which is 25% higher than the global average – making digital advertising a massive opportunity for local retailers. This is why 48% of shoppers will search for deals on non-retail websites, while only 40% of shoppers will use newspapers, magazines, and leaflets. PwC said that while Black Friday offers terrific opportunities for local retailers to boost their revenues, they need to step up their customer service accordingly. “Give customers a great experience and they will buy more, be more loyal and share their experience with friends. Customer experience is everything,” said PwC. Combining various studies, PwC highlighted four key customer priorities for retailers during Black Friday and Cyber Monday: