If you are planning to buy a new TV, gaming console, PC, graphics card, smartphone, or any other major tech product – you should wait until Black Friday. Making a big purchase now, even if the product is discounted, could result in regret later in November when you see it on sale for even cheaper. Black Friday 2019 is set to kick off on 29 November and will see retailers across the country offering some of the biggest discounts of the year. Big retailers like Takealot, Game, Dion Wired, Afrihost, and Pick n Pay will all hold Black Friday specials, offering savings on a wide array of products. Everything from smartphones, TVs, and SSDs to flights and groceries will be on special, with many companies planning to offer their biggest discounts of the year. In the United States, companies such as Amazon also hold impressive sales on the day, and South Africans can take advantage of deals in the US via direct imports or third-party shipping companies. Even if you are dying to buy that new Samsung flat-screen or upgrade your desktop processor, you should be strong and hold on to your cash. Whatever specials are currently available, they are almost guaranteed to be bested by the wide array of discounts on 29 November. Some retailers start their Black Friday sales at the beginning of the week, leading up to the final day on Friday. Others launch early Black Friday sales in addition to discounts on the day. Many retailers will only launch their deals closer to the day, but a few local retailers are already offering price cuts. These companies include Pick n Pay, Esquire, The Mattress Warehouse, and Superbalist. Black Friday 2019 is set to break last year’s records, with a wider range of specials from more online and brick-and-mortar retailers in South Africa. A number of retailers recently spoke to MyBroadband about their plans for Black Friday, with companies including Takealot, OneDayOnly, Makro, Loot, MTN, and Raru all confirming they would participate in the wildly popular sale. These retailers are planning to offer massive discounts across entire categories of products, leaving South Africans with many choices when it comes to picking up discounted products. There is nothing worse than buying a new TV only to see it available for half the price a week later, so save your money for Black Friday to take advantage of the best specials on offer this year.