The quality of matric mathematics education in South Africa has been criticised by education practitioners in recent years. Professor John Webb of the UCT Department of Mathematics and Applied Mathematics believes that the standard of matric mathematics has dropped substantially. “Today’s matric maths papers are substantially easier than those set in the old Higher grade/Standard grade regime,” Webb told MyBroadband. “In those days a top school could expect only a few Maths A symbols. Today, the same school can boast ten times as many. ” Webb said that when it comes to developing university-ready mathematics students, teaching is of critical importance. However, he believes that there is a crisis in mathematics at a school level that is resulting in intelligent students not being challenged sufficiently in the classroom. “They get their A for matric maths, for which they and their parents and their teachers and the Department of Basic Education are happy, but the next year they discover that their A has not adequately prepared them for university mathematics,” Webb said. Webb attributed this to the fact that papers are now set at the same level as the old Standard Grade level, which explains why there are so many students who achieve A’s today compared to the past. Ruan Moolman, UCT lecturer and founder of the Academy for Maths, Science, and Technology (AMSAT), said that he is worried about the standard of mathematics education in South Africa. “My reasons for this are mostly because of the lack of good teachers, the pressure under which teachers work, the bad salaries they receive, and that universities accept and admit prospective teaching students who are not able to teach or prepare high school learners sufficiently,” Moolman said. “More and more students entering university are not autonomous learners, and do not have the needed critical thinking skills to be successful in university mathematics,” he said. Webb agreed, adding that the NSC papers can be mastered relatively easily purely through intense repetitive training. “Schools aim to complete the maths curriculum in the middle of the grade 12 year, and from then on concentrate on working through old papers and drilling routine techniques.” Gareth Braatvedt, Deputy Head of Mathematics at the University of Johannesburg, said that UJ would like to see a greater emphasis placed on problem-solving and logical thought development in matric. “Students who have only ever been taught to solve routine problems in learnt ways, students who have not been stimulated towards mathematical originality from an early age, are greatly disadvantaged both in the their academic pursuits as well as their career aspirations,” he said. According to Webb, it is extremely difficult to change the school curriculum and examination system to become one where rote learning is no longer at the forefront of examination. As a result of this, universities have had to come up with their own ways of dealing with the failures of the matric mathematics system. One of these methods is the National Benchmark Test (NBT), which is used by many universities alongside exam results to determine the aptitude of potential candidates. Another way that students are tested is through placement tests, which are aimed at detecting students who require additional support. “Flexible first-year registration processes allow students at risk to move from a straight maths major course to a more accessible half-course, with extra tutorials at a slower pace, sometimes spread over the whole year,” Webb explained. However, he said that this is a stop-gap solution, as the same courses must be implemented each year due to students having the same weaknesses.