In an interconnected digital economy, businesses cannot afford to rely on locally-deployed infrastructure to process, store and protect valuable data. This outdated practice can be ineffective and insecure. The cloud is key. IBM Cloud is a powerful suite of innovative data and AI tools combined with cloud industry expertise to assist your business’s journey into the cloud. It is a full-stack cloud platform with more than 170 products and services that cover data, containers, AI, IoT, and blockchain – providing all the cloud capability businesses will require. As an IBM Gold Business Partner, Tectight offers the experience needed to provide your business with the optimal IBM Cloud solution. Processing power is at the core of an optimised cloud experience. IBM’s Cloud bare metal servers employ scalable second-generation Intel Xeon Gold and Silver processors. With the Aerospike NoSQL Database integrated on these servers, businesses gain fast and flexible infrastructure capabilities to effectively manage data-intensive workloads. IBM Cloud bare metal servers boast a host of useful features, including: Also on offer is IBM’s Cloud Storage solution which is flexible and scalable, and has the ability to handle both traditional and cloud-native workloads. Provisioning, deployment and access is made simple so that customers can overcome the difficulties related to managing large amounts of different storage types locally. Additionally, cost savings are realised with IBM’s solution. When the International Data Corporation (IDC) analysed the business value of IBM Cloud Object Storage through interviews with IBM Cloud customers, it projected storage-related cost savings, staff efficiencies and higher revenue would be worth more than 3.5 times the costs over three years. IBM Cloud Paks are enterprise-ready, containerised software solutions that assist businesses in moving core applications to the cloud. These solutions are underpinned by Red Hat OpenShift and supported by Red Hat Enterprise Linux. Cloud Pak for Data System combines hardware and software to integrate different components, such as storage, processing, networking and software into a cumulative hyper-converged ecosystem. The benefits of this software solution include simplified management, accelerated deployment, scalability, agility and low costs, as well as AI capabilities that eliminate the need for data users to manually configure hardware and software infrastructure. Private Cloud is also catered for by IBM, and it supports private cloud solutions based on-premise and in data centres within customers’ business zones. IBM Private Cloud runs on your business’s infrastructure and is built on open source frameworks, like containers, Kubernetes, and Cloud Foundry. Legacy applications are then securely integrated to the private cloud during an extensive analysis and redesign process which allows for the refactoring and modernisation of these applications. This solution allows businesses to run cloud applications in a private cloud and be moved into a public cloud later on if needed. Tectight’s team of certified engineers possess a wealth of expertise that will assist your business’s cloud requirements. Let Tectight assist you to effectively implement a tailored IBM Cloud solution that will drive your data to better serve your business’s targets. Click here for more information on Tectight’s IBM Cloud products. This article was published in partnership with Tectight.