PwC has predicted that online sales will account for 43.4% of all purchases this Black Friday, which means it is crucial that delivery companies ensure that all purchases are delivered timeously. Customers expect to receive their purchases quickly, and any delays in this process can cause huge issues for customers, businesses, and delivery companies. MyBroadband spoke with courier company Aramex and smart logistics company Pargo about their preparations for Black Friday. “As far as gearing up for Black Friday deliveries goes, this impacts us both on our local distribution for the likes of Yuppiechef, Zara, and Zando, as well as our International inbound eCommerce from USA, UK, China and Europe,” said Aramex. The global courier company told MyBroadband that it has extended its delivery hours to include after-hours and weekend deliveries. It believes that this will help it to manage the inevitable increased delivery volumes over the shopping season. Aramex said that this peak delivery season doesn’t stop until January 2020, as festive season shopping will soon follow the Black Friday and Cyber Monday period. Pargo said it has been preparing well in advance to ensure that it is equipped to deal with the increased demand for its services. “We feel very confident that we are ready for the busy weeks ahead,” said Pargo. “We have moved our backend server to a larger platform, migrated our major partners to a new backend Pargo system and updated all the pickup point scanning devices and software during the winter months.” Pargo also said it has increased its support staff by 15% and has coordinated extra collection dates for clients. Both Pargo and Aramex offer the option for customers to collect their orders from pre-defined pick-up points. Aramex said it offers this functionality with certain online retailers and uses its own PostNet network to enable this. Pargo offers this service through various businesses with whom it has partnerships – including Clicks and Spar. It also offers an omnichannel solution whereby customers can purchase a product from a business’ online platform and then collect the product in-store. Stores that support this solution include Cape Union Mart, Foschini, Markham, K-Way, and Old Khaki. Aramex advised choosing a courier option over this peak season rather than any postal options, particularly for international e-commerce – such as Aramex’s Global Shopper service. International shopping is a great option, said Aramex, as it allows customers to purchase products across borders. However, shoppers should take into account customs duties and taxes to ensure that they are getting a great deal. “Retain any order confirmation or tax invoice the online retailer mails you when making your purchase – you may be required to produce it when your shipment arrives in SA customs,” the company said. Pargo added that pick-up points are a great alternative to direct delivery during this peak season. This is because customers can collect their purchases when it suits them, rather than having to worry about being at home to receive their orders. “With summer starting and the festive season upon us, we understand that people will be on the go and won’t always at home to receive their online orders,” said Pargo. “Additionally, the courier companies are working at full capacity and a missed delivery can cause great delays.”