Disney+ has garnered significant attention following its launch in the US, Canada, and the Netherlands on 12 November 2019. The streaming service offers users a large database of popular movies, shows, and originals, and is seen as a competitor to streaming giant Netflix. Unfortunately, Disney+is not yet available in South Africa, and The Walt Disney Company Africa said that it has no news to share regarding any plans to launch the service locally. “All Disney Plus originals are exclusive to the Disney Plus service,” the company said. “At this point, we have no news regarding this service launch in Africa.” This means that the only way South Africans can watch original Disney+ content such as the recently-launched series “The Mandalorian” is through piracy. Disney+ offers content from popular franchises that Disney owns, such as Star Wars and Marvel, as well as content from Pixar and Disney’s own studios. In total, Disney+ offers its users nearly 500 movies and 7,500 episodes. Examples of popular content available on Disney+ include: However, if Disney+ was to launch in South Africa, it is unlikely that all of its content would be available to local subscribers due to licensing issues. Additionally, fans who want to watch anything owned by Disney with an age restriction higher than PG13 will have to use Hulu instead. Unlike many of Netflix’s original shows, Disney+ series episodes will be released on a weekly basis instead of all at once. There is no South African pricing for Disney+, as the service is not available locally. Disney+ costs $6.99 per month in the United States, and users are allowed to stream to four devices simultaneously and watch content in 4K. This is substantially more affordable than Netflix’s equivalent offering, which costs $16 per month. It is worth noting, however, that Netflix has a substantially larger content library. US customers can also bundle Disney+ with Hulu and ESPN+, which comes to a total of $13 per month. The launch of Disney+ also means that Disney is removing its content from Netflix. Disney expects this process to be completed by late 2019. Netflix has historically been the home of Disney movies, which means that this is a big loss for the streaming service. Captain Marvel will be the first movie that will launch on Disney+ rather than Netflix. The launch of Disney+ has also seen Disney’s market value grow significantly, with the company not worth double the value of Netflix. This is a notable change, as Netflix had a larger market value than Disney last year.