Canon’s EOS R full-frame mirrorless camera system, launched in 2018, continues to evolve. As a late starter to the full-frame mirrorless market – Canon was expected to come out swinging heavily. The EOS R and EOS RP (announced in Feb 2019) received mixed reviews around the world as most photography pundits expected a more professional camera to be announced. The EOS R was criticised for not having in-body stabilising and only one card slot and for using older generation sensor technology. What most reviewers agreed on, however, was that the lenses that Canon had released were of the highest optical performance ever seen. Fast forward to mid/late 2019 and Canon has added an entry-level model to augment the line-up (EOS RP) AND a further 4 lenses to expand on the options available to the first adopters of the EOS R system. Overwhelmingly, opinions started to change online as most reviewers took back their earlier comments and marvelled at the image quality produced by the R system and lenses. The use of sensors from the 5D4 and 6D2 as the basis for the R and RP respectively were noticed as a clever benchmark for Canon to display the optical performance of the new lenses by comparing to the EF lenses on the DSLR’s. The single card slot meant for a very comfortable grip with good ergonomics and very acceptable battery life. With the announcement of a major firmware update and the start of the pro trinity of lenses (RF15-35mm f2.8 L IS, RF 24-70mm f2.8 L IS, RF 70-200mm f2.8 L IS) for the R system in Sept-Oct 2019, Canon has made a firm statement of its commitment to the future of full-frame mirrorless cameras. The EOS R system is now considered as a firm favourite amongst opinion leaders and reviewers worldwide for photo and video purposes and most users are eager to see where Canon will be going with this new system. All indications are that we are only seeing the tip of the iceberg right now and the future of this system is going to be incredible indeed. This article was published in partnership with Canon.