The Department of Home Affairs has proposed a number of new measures to escalate its “war on queues”, which aims to eliminate the long lines and wait times at its branches around South Africa. This initiative has not been very successful since it was first introduced in June 2018, but the department remains committed to improving its service levels. Department of Home Affairs director-general Thulani Mavuso updated the Portfolio Committee on Home Affairs on the progress it was making on this initiative. Mavuso listed the following challenges as negative factors affecting the long queues at Home Affairs branches: He added that the Department of Home Affairs is implementing several strategies to cut down on inefficiencies and long queue times. One of the strategies which Mavuso emphasised most during his presentation was the creation of an online heat map which would show customers how busy individual Home Affairs branches are. “We intend to develop a heatmap on our website, and this is doable by utilizing cellphones. What happens … is that in a particular area … there is a company that has approached us to help us with that,” Mavuso said. “So basically what you do, you check the number of people who are in the office-based on a number of cellphones in the area.” “The heatmap will tell you how many people are there, it will show whether it is red or green, by just utilizing the location of the cellphones which are in that area.” This will not directly change the cause of the long queues, but it will at least allow users to avoid branches where there are especially long queue times. When it comes to actually reducing the occurrence of long, inefficient queues, Mavuso said the department was looking to encourage the use of the eHome Affairs system as well as the creation of a system which would issue overflow customers with tickets. “We want to encourage the utilization of the eHome Affairs system to say in a particular office, we then create a counter that deals specifically with those people who have already done their application online, all they just need is to just capture biometrics,” Mavuso said. “We are also looking at developing a smartphone app for the re-issue of passport and smart ID cards. In this regard, we are thinking that what will work for us is that we should allow clients to be able to apply for the re-issue of their documents without them coming to do enrollment.” The department is also negotiating with unions regarding the discontinuation of Saturday working hours, as well as conducting continuous training to improve management and communications at branches. During the first week of January, the department said it planned to extend working hours from 07:00 until 19:00 to better cope with the high volumes of customers during this period. In a previous Parliamentary committee meeting, Home Affairs Minister Aaron Motsoaledi shed light on how homeless South Africans were creating queues on purpose to capitalise on the impatience of legitimate visitors. “Last year, we did an assessment and we went to various offices,” Motsoaledi said. “One of the offices was in Pietermaritzburg, where the people who are homeless would wake up wherever they are within the city and go and queue in the line at Home Affairs in the morning.” These people did not require the services of the Home Affairs office, but they queued at the building in the hope of selling their space in line to visitors who did not want to wait for extended periods of time. “By the time you arrive, whether it is at 5:00 or 6:00, there are already 20 to 25 people in front of you,” Motsoaledi said. “They are not there for the service, they are there to create queues and sell their space.” While this phenomenon may be exclusive to certain branches, it does have an effect on the length of Home Affairs queues in certain circumstances.