Showmax is well positioned to compete with international streaming heavyweights like Netflix. This is according to MultiChoice Connected Video CEO Niclas Ekdahl, who was speaking to MyBroadband during a MultiChoice Media Showcase. “I think we have done some fantastic stuff in terms of bringing a content line-up on Showmax, which I think is the best one across Africa,” Ekdahl said. He emphasised the advantage Showmax has over Netflix in terms of producing relevant, local content. “From a local perspective, with the group producing 5,000 hours per year, and looking at productions from the likes of Netflix on the African continent, it’s a shallow number. I think we have confident leadership in that sense.” With regards to international content, Ekdahl stated that the Showmax library has seen significant growth. “From a Hollywood perspective, I really think we upped the ante in the last 12 months, we’ve gone from having a lot of older library TV series into really bringing out the big guns from the big Hollywood studios.” In addition to Game of Thrones, Showmax has secured popular shows from HBO like Watchmen, His Dark Materials, and the critically-acclaimed Chernobyl. Another factor which Ekdahl believes has given Showmax a boost is that the service is able to get the first broadcasting rights to premium movies. “Getting the first subscription window for top movie titles that have been released in the US onto the service, that hasn’t been seen on the VOD scene in Africa before, and I think that’s also a great contributor,” he said. When it comes to Internet connectivity, however, Showmax can fall victim to several location-specific obstacles that are not necessarily a problem for users in Western countries. South Africa generally suffers from low broadband availability and expensive data prices, issues which limit consumer access to streaming services. To address this, Ekdahl said that Showmax and DStv Now systems are built in a way that helps to alleviate the effects of poor infrastructure and limited access to data. “We have some features, I think for me it’s a matter of not just doing corporate pride, but also looking into Africa-centric development, the encryption technology and the compression to make sure that we bring down the bit rate as far as possible without hampering the quality,” he said. Showmax has also introduced a mobile-only plan, which is priced at R49 per month for streaming on a smartphone or tablet. In its General Household Survey of 2018, StatsSA found that just over 10% of South African households have an Internet connection at home, while more than 60% of citizens access the internet via a mobile device. Showmax could therefore benefit from this market. “I think the mobile-only subscription is also another way to make sure that we can really target the connected smartphone population,” Ekdahl said.