During its Cloud&AI Forum 2019 in Cape Town, Huawei launched its new-generation, intelligent, all-flash storage product, the OceanStor Dorado, which runs on the powerful Kunpeng and Ascend processors. Huawei Dorado leverages unique FlashLink technology to optimise the collaboration between chips (including CPU chips, SSD controller chips, and AI chips) and storage operating systems, fully unleashing the power of all-flash storage with intelligent AI acceleration. The performance yields up to 20 million IOPS, with less than 0.5ms latency 100%+ better than over competitors. The system uses the SmartMatrix fully interconnected, truly Active-Active architecture, which tolerates the failure of 7 out of 8 controllers, the highest in the industry (most vendors only tolerate failure of up to 3 out of 4 controllers), ensuring always-on core services. In addition to high performance and reliability, Huawei Dorado helps reduce costs while improving efficiency. Huawei Dorado can provide a data reduction ratio at least 20% higher than the industry average and 33% higher capacity density because of Huawei self-developed high density Palm SSD. Based on these new technologies, Huawei Dorado can help customers to reduce the Opex by 30% than peer vendors solution. Furthermore, coupling the new series with the Flash Only Plus program enables customers to enjoy cutting-edge all-flash storage advantages and service experience in the most cost-effective way. In the Enterprise digital transformation journey, Data has become a driving development force, much like coal’s role in the first industrial Revolution. Andy Xu, Vice President of Huawei Intelligent Data and Storage Product Line, said, “In the digital economy, new connections and applications are accelerating data production and flows. With the rapid development of cutting-edge technologies such as 5G, cloud, AI a diverse range of applications and massive amounts of data are generated, which pose demanding requirements on real-time data processing.” “Data infrastructures must be upgraded to fulfill these demands. OceanStor Dorado intelligent all-flash storage, the new-generation intelligent storage solution, embodies Huawei’s years of experience in all-flash storage technologies, and aims to better help customers get the most value possible from their data value.” Ever Fast, Ever Solid, and AI-Powered – OceanStor Dorado Intelligent All-Flash Storage Redefined All Flash Array’s benchmark in the world in terms of Performance, Reliability and Data Density The OceanStor Dorado has the following innovative features: Based on the Kunpeng 920, NIC chip, management chip, SSD controller chip, and AI-powered Ascend 310 processor, the OceanStor Dorado end-to-end platform delivers best-in-class 20,000,000 IOPS and 0.1ms latency, meeting real-time application requirements. The SmartMatrix fully interconnected, high-reliability architecture ensures service running even when 7 out of 8 controllers fail simultaneously, setting a new benchmark for storage reliability. The data reduction ratio at least 20% higher than the industry average by huawei’s unique algorithms, and 33% less space occupied than the industry by the innovative palm SSD disk support 36 SSDs/2U. Huawei Cloud&AI Forum is an event hosted by Huawei for the African ICT industry, it is being held in Cape Town on 13rd November 2019. This year’s Conference is themed on “Building an Intelligent Africa” and aims to establish an open, cooperative and shared platform for customers and partners to explore new opportunities for an intelligent future. This article was published in partnership with Huawei.