Renault has won the title of most fuel-efficient car brand in WesBank and FNB’s first Fuel Economy Tour. The purpose of the event was to provide consumers with accurate fuel consumption figures for 40 popular cars in South Africa. The five-day event concluded on 16 November and encompassed 32 vehicle classes. These included entries from Kia, Fiat, Hyundai, Toyota, Lexus, Mitsubishi, Suzuki, Honda, Ford, Renault, Nissan, and Mahindra. Participants then drove along a 2,500km route from Johannesburg to Cape Town to test the fuel efficiencies of the cars. To monitor each vehicle’s progress along the route, trackers were installed in the cars. The equipment included tracking sensors and dash cams, as well as interior cameras. Using this hardware, the average speeds of the vehicles were tracked and it was ensured that they did not deviate from the route. Participants were required to drive as closely as possible to the speed limits and finish specific sections within a given time. “The objective of this event was to provide consumers with fuel consumption figures that are relevant to going on a road trip in South Africa using main roads,” said Fuel Economy Tour chief organiser Charl Wilken. To determine the winner, the average consumption of the three best-performing vehicles from each car brand was used. The Renault Captur, Duster Techroad, and Kwid Climber performed best, and Suzuki took second place with its Baleno, Ignis, and Swift. Third place went to Mahindra, with one KUV 100 and two XUV 300 vehicles taking part. Nissan and Ford claimed the fourth and fifth place, respectively. When looking at individual models, the Renault Captur 1.5-litre diesel-turbo was the car with the lowest average consumption. It was followed by the Toyota Aygo and the Nissan Qashqai 1.5-litre diesel turbo. The turbo diesel double cab class for engines with less than 2,500cc was headed up by the Ford Ranger 2.0l. The Mitsubishi Triton took the runner-up spot, while the Nissan Navara grabbed third place. The full results for all 40 vehicles can be viewed here. The table below shows the top 10 most fuel-efficient vehicles from the 2019 Wesbank Fuel Economy Tour.