Matrix Warehouse is one of South Africa’s most recognisable computing retail brands which has stores across the country. With such a strong retail presence, many people assume Matrix Warehouse is owned by a large retail group. Not so. The company was founded nineteen years ago as a small retail store in Alberton and remains an independent retail chain. Here is an overview of how the company was started and how it grew into a popular computer retail giant. Matrix Warehouse was founded by Justin Lowe in August 2000 and started trading in an 80 square metre store in Kritzinger Road, Alberton. Recognising the need for reliable and cost-effective computer supplies and services, the company started expanding its store base in 2001, when four additional stores were opened. The photos below show the original store and the original workshop in the store.       In 2004 Matrix Warehouse introduced its franchise model, and to date Matrix has 23 owned branches and 52 franchise stores country-wide. Matrix Warehouse has four main hubs which are used for distribution to its franchises throughout the country in Pretoria, Cape Town, Durban, and George. The business has always been run with the philosophy of being owner-managed, a principal that is also driven in all the franchise stores. The culture and values of the company ensure that the key focus of the business remains customer service delivery. The Matrix Warehouse Head Office Store and Warehouse is still based in Alberton, but the premises have now grown to 12,000 square meters. Matrix Warehouse recently launched its new refreshed brand at the Alberton store and will be rolling this out to all stores nation-wide. The overhaul is aimed at offering clients a great in-store experience and includes an assembly line that can build PCs to customer specification. The photos below show the re-branded Matrix Warehouse store in Alberton.      Matrix Warehouse has launched a first-of-its-kind gaming centre in South Africa called the Matrix Maverick Gaming Centre. This store, situated at Rivonia Crossing 2, was developed in partnership with Telkom and the VS Gaming High Performance Esports Centre. The aim of this shop is to create opportunity for gamers to engage with titles like CS:GO, Dota 2, and League of Legends. This venue is also well suited for corporate events and parties.         