Apple has detailed the new features coming in iOS 13 – the latest version of the company’s mobile operating system. iOS 13 has been geared for performance, said Apple, and features the following improvements: Another standout feature in iOS 13 is a new dark mode. This lets users set their device and supported apps to run with a black background and complementary colour schemes. The iOS keyboard also supports dark mode, and the ability to swipe between letters when typing has been added. Updates have been added to Apple’s top apps too, including Safari and Maps. Safari has a new option which allows users to adjust text settings and set per-website preferences. A new Reminders app has been included in iOS 13 which includes built-in intelligence that understands what you want to be reminded about with simple inputs. Users can also tag people in their reminders and will receive notifications when in Messages to talk to the tagged individuals. Apple put a lot of attention on its new Maps application, which features a big update. Maps has been rebuilt with much finer detail, and Apple will roll out its refined maps across the US this year. More countries may added in the future, it added. An updated “street view” has also been included in the app. A new feature from Apple in iOS 13 is “Sign in with Apple”. This feature replaces the “Login with Facebook or Google” options users often see when signing into an app. Apple’s sign-in feature allows users to sign into an app without their details being exposed or tracked. Additionally, users can choose to hide their email address from apps when signing in. Sign in with Apple will then create a random email address that is used to sign a user in and will forward mails sent to this address to the user’s real email address. Users can then turn the random addresses off to stop getting notifications. Developers can insert this sign-in option into their apps with Apple’s API. Additional new features in iOS 13 include: The developer preview of iOS 13 is available to Apple Developer Program members. A public beta will be available to iOS users later this month.