Kathea is proud to announce its distributor status for Poly – Polycom and Plantronics – in South and Southern Africa, effective from May 2019. Over the course of 2018, Plantronics completed their acquisition of Polycom and in March of this year, announced that their company would rebrand as Poly, a technology company focused on the human experience of communications and collaboration, aiming to make remote communication as rich and natural as in-person. Poly, which means “many”, leverages the legendary audio and video expertise of Plantronics and Polycom to increase its breadth of smart endpoints that connect across and between unified communications platforms. “We see limitless opportunity for how people communicate and collaborate today. With advancements in AI, machine learning and new technologies, we see a future where Poly makes the connection, then quietly steps out of the way to become the one thing you don’t notice in the meeting.” Says Joe Burton, President and Chief Executive Officer of Poly. Kathea has proudly and successfully represented Polycom in the communication and collaboration arena for the past 15 years, offering deep skills and service competence, combined with efficient distribution through their many partners. Multiple awards from Polycom over the past two decades serve as further evidence of how Kathea has set itself apart. Kathea is not new to headset distribution and is excellently positioned to offer specialised skills and support to the market in this area. The Kathea Team has recently grown in several areas – in Logistics, Post-Sales Services and in the Sales Team. In addition to growing these Support Teams, this also ensures dedicated Poly Product Specialists in key areas: “Two great technology houses and trusted brands coming together provides for an exciting combination that we are very proud to represent and we look forward to showcasing and supporting great products from Poly”, says Peter Cowen, Chief Executive Officer of Kathea. This article was published in partnership with Kathea.