These days most of us barely go from one room to the next without our smartphones. And we all want features like immersive viewing experiences, longer-lasting performance and groundbreaking cameras. The good news is that with the Galaxy A, Samsung has created a series of smartphones that has innovative features at an affordable price. The series, including the A10, A30 and A50, offers diverse, powerful devices that provide an option for everyone, whether for fi rst-time mobile users or value-seekers. Samsung has clearly focussed on what South Africans want – premium features at an affordable price. It’s made for those who want to live the Galaxy life. The Galaxy A50, with its sleek, slim design, allows you to capture and share amazing photos with its triple camera, designed to capture everything your creative eyes can see. That’s why you’ll also appreciate the A50’s Ultra-Wide lens as well as the 25MP main camera, which captures vivid images in bright daylight and adapts effortlessly to those big nights out as well. Combined with the Depth lens, the camera offers a Live Focus experience, enabling you to choose exactly what you want to highlight. The Galaxy A30 is designed for those on the go all the time, which is why it’s equipped with a powerful 4,000 mAh fast-charging battery. It’s also a visual feast. The edge-to-edge 6.4-inch Super AMOLED Infinity-U Display is ideal for watching videos, messaging, gaming and browsing – truly letting you live your life on the go without missing a beat. Created for a more seamless mobile experience, the A30 includes advanced camera features such as a dual camera, including that amazing Ultra-Wide-Angle lens. The Galaxy A10’s slender 7.9 mm body feels like it’s made for your hand. The glossy fi nish stands out all on its own, and you can choose from black, blue, or red. It allows you to take awesome photos the way you want with the 13MP rear and 5MP front camera. Your memories will stay vivid, bright, and clear with the tap of a button. Also, the Galaxy A10’s Infinity-V Display changes the way you experience videos by putting you right in the action and the battery is powerful enough to last through those big days and nights. This article was published in partnership with Samsung.