Apple recently unveiled its new range of hardware, including its powerful and configurable Mac Pro 2019 and its new Pro Display XDR monitor. Apple’s new display boasts a 32-inch panel with a resolution of 6,016 x 3,284, HDR support, and an impressive 1,000,000:1 contrast ratio. Like many Apple products, the Pro Display XDR and Mac Pro have relatively high price tags, but it was the price of the accessories for Apple’s new display which delivered the real shock. At WWDC 2019, Apple announced that its Pro Display XDR monitor would be priced from $4,999, and added that the “Pro Stand” was priced separately at $999. The screen does not ship with a stand, and if buyers would rather purchase their own stand for the Pro Display XDR, they will need to buy a VESA mount adapter from Apple for $199. There is currently no South African pricing for the Pro Display XDR, but the US dollar price tag for the Pro Stand is equivalent to around R14,400 at the time of writing. To put this into perspective, we have listed some of the items you can buy in South Africa for the price of Apple’s new monitor stand. For the price of Apple’s Pro Stand, you could purchase an Apple iPhone Xr 64GB smartphone. The iPhone Xr might not have as many features as the flagship iPhone Xs, but it is just as powerful thanks to its A12 Bionic chipset.  Instead of buying a monitor stand from Apple, you could buy a 54.6-inch 4K monitor from Wootware. It might not be as impressive as the Pro Display XDR in terms of resolution or contrast, but it is significantly cheaper – and it comes with a stand.  The AMD Radeon VII 16GB graphics card is one of the latest gaming GPUs from AMD and is able to deliver exceptional levels of gaming performance. It might not be able to drive 6K gaming at 60FPS on the Pro Display XDR display, but it does cost less than the display’s stand.  Apple users might not be the biggest fans of Android smartphones, but for the same price as the Pro Stand for the new Pro Display XDR, they could buy a premium handset from competing brands. Samsung’s Galaxy S10e 128GB delivers an AMOLED display, high-end performance, and a great camera system for only R13,999.  If it’s a high-end, HDR-compatible display you’re after, you could buy a Samsung 4K smart TV with HDR10+ support for just less than the price of the Pro Display XDR’s monitor stand. The TV comes with a stand too, and it doesn’t even need an adapter to support VESA display mounts.  You could buy an entire pre-built gaming PC from Evetech for the price of Apple’s monitor stand, and it wouldn’t be a weak rig either. For R13,999, you could buy a PC with a Ryzen 5 2600, Nvidia GeForce GTX 1660 Ti, 8GB of RAM, and a 480GB SSD. 