Gallagher Convention Centre recently hosted their showcase dinner, presenting guests with a delectable 5-course meal, great entertainment by Jason Goliath and Sterling EQ, and the opportunity to network with a multitude of Gallagher partners and suppliers. As a multi-purpose event venue, Gallagher offers a wide range of services, which include in-house catering, event coordination assistance, high-capacity parking, hygienic restrooms, security, and health and safety for any event. At the showcase dinner, their in-house catering team – led by Head Chef Gordon Fraser – treated guests to a food serving demonstration of the main course, showcasing the team’s dedication and attention to detail while working together to perfect each plate at lightning speed. Guests also had the opportunity to see the latest products and services on offer from Gallagher’s pre-qualified network of suppliers, which offers services such as logistics, freight handling and porterage, registration, printing, security, décor, and technical equipment for events. The suppliers in their pre-qualified network are held to the highest standard, in line with the quality that their clients are accustomed to receiving from Gallagher Convention Centre. Gallagher’s professional and experienced team – with a collective industry experience of over 229 years – and the network of pre-qualified suppliers are dedicated to offering unmatched service and quality to meet the requirements of clients and their guests. This is according to Gallagher CEO Charles Wilson, who joined Gallagher in 2009 and has been at the head of the many projects to refurbish the 32-hectare Gallagher Convention Centre property. Wilson also stated that the passion among the team is amazing. “Sometimes, depending on the size of the event, we utilise up to a thousand people, who are all there at the disposal of our event organisers,” said Wilson. “For us, it’s imperative that our clients and event organisers understand that we form a part of their team, because ultimately as a Professional Conference Organiser (PCO), exhibition organiser, or as the organiser for another event, we share the same goal – the success of your client’s or your own event,” said Wilson. “We stand together and work together and we understand that everybody is here for the same thing.” In his talk at the showcase dinner, Wilson also reaffirmed the company’s commitment to reinvesting in the property facilities to make it the best venue in South Africa. The 32-hectare property offers 27 venues which cater to almost any event requirement – such as conferences exhibitions, dinners, luncheons, cocktails, and private events – making it the perfect place to host your dream event. In the category for small venues, Gallagher caters for 2- 200 guests. In the medium venues, they cater for 250-700 guests, and in the large venues up to 7,000 guests can be accommodated. So, when it comes to hosting your unique, tailor-made function or event, you can rest assured that South Africa’s premier event venue Gallagher Convention Centre has the resources and facilities you need to make it a success. For more information, visit the Gallagher website.  This article was published in partnership with Gallagher Convention Centre.