The AI revolution is transforming industries. However, many companies have been constrained by the challenges of size, power, and AI compute density, creating the demand for AI solutions that are smaller, more energy efficient, and more affordable. Nvidia has played a major role in the adoption of AI, and now enables the development of millions of new AI devices that are power efficient in a small form-factor – the Jetson Nano. The Jetson Nano is a small AI computer that comes as a developer kit at a price well below $130 and a production-ready module that will be available by the end of June. It can process data from high-resolution sensors, process multiple sensors simultaneously, and run multiple neural networks per sensor. This makes an entire world of new embedded applications possible, including entry-level NVRs, home robots, and intelligent gateways with full analytics capabilities. The power of AI, born of supercomputers, is now available to the mass embedded market—only with Jetson Nano. It all starts with a production-ready, small form-factor (69x45mm) System on Module (SOM) from NVIDIA. It comes with a 128-core NVIDIA Maxwell GPU, a quad-core ARM A57 processing system, a video encoder and decoder, and 4 GB LPDDR4 RAM as well as 16 GB eMMC memory. And, it features a host of interfaces and IOs, including a high-speed IO for CSI, PCIe, Gigabit Ethernet, and USB3, and video interfaces such as HDMI and DisplayPort, and a standard IOs for I2C, I2S, SPI, and GPIO. Jetson Nano is designed to reduce overall development time and bring products to market faster by reducing the time spent on hardware design, test, and verification of a complex, robust, power-efficient AI system. The design comes complete with power management, clocking, memory, and fully accessible IOs. Developers can easily connect their sensors and IO and start developing the application-specific arts of the system. With both boot and program flash, Jetson Nano lets developers simply and regularly update their algorithms during development, and even after the system is deployed. It is supported by NVIDIA JetPack, which includes a board support package (BSP), Linux OS, NVIDIA CUDA, cuDNN, and TensorRT software libraries for deep learning, computer vision, GPU computing, multimedia processing, and much more. The JetPack SDK scales across the entire Jetson family and is fully compatible with NVIDIA’s world-leading AI platform for training and deploying AI software. This helps developers get a head start, quickly getting a system up and running, and focusing on differentiating their products with their application code and unique capabilities. Jetson Nano also supports a number of deep learning networks such as ResNet-50 and SSD Mobilnet-V2, enet. It also supports frameworks like Caffe, TensorFlow, PyTorch, Darknet, MXNet, and Keras. Altron Arrow now locally supplies and supports the Jetson Nano product line, as well as other products in the Jetson family – the TX2 and Xavier. For more information, visit the Altron Arrow website, or contact Renaldo Fibiger on +27 (0) 11 923 9749, +27 (0) 83 388 6501, or via email: RFibiger@arrow.altech.co.za. This article was published in partnership with Altron Arrow.