RS Components (RS), the trading brand of Electrocomponents plc (LSE: ECM), a global multi-channel provider of industrial and electronic products and solutions, has introduced KUNBUS to its supplier portfolio, a specialist developer of intelligent communications modules, including fieldbus- and industrial Ethernet-based devices for a range of automation markets. The KUNBUS products now available from RS include 14 new lines including industrial computers, PLCs and data acquisition and human-machine interface (HMI) devices. A key series from KUNBUS is the Revolution Pi series of open-source and modular industrial PCs, based on the well-established Raspberry Pi platform. This innovative and reliable modular system, which meets the EN61131-2 international standard for PLCs, offers a series of central processing units including the RevPi Connect, RevPi Core and RevPi Core 3. Installed in DIN-rail housings, all the products come with USB, Ethernet and HDMI connections and are based around the Raspberry Pi Compute module, making them highly compatible with the Raspberry Pi model 3 or Raspberry Pi B+. Depending on application requirements, these base modules can be expanded seamlessly using the appropriate digital or analogue I/O modules, as well as fieldbus gateways to connect them to an industrial network. For example, due to its open platform concept, the RevPi Connect gateway provides users with maximum freedom when implementing industrial IoT (IIoT) projects, including full root rights. Implemented as a DIN-rail PC, or purely as a small control unit, the system uses a specially modified version of the Raspbian operating system with a real-time patch, as well as supporting common IIoT protocols such as MQTT and OPC UA. Individual applications can be programmed using a range of languages including Node-RED, Python, or directly in C. The RevPi Connect can also be upgraded with PROFINET, Ethernet IP, EtherCAT, Modbus TCP and Modbus RTU functionality without the use of expansion modules. The product’s Ethernet interfaces enable it to be integrated within IT and automation networks and transmit data from the production environment up to the cloud, for example. “The KUNBUS Revolution Pi is an innovative series of communication modules based around Raspberry Pi-based computing technology,” said James Milne, Portfolio Manager at RS. “This exciting open-source and highly modular platform can provide many of our customers with an inexpensive way of connecting up their automation processes and enabling them to reap the benefits of the industrial IoT.” The KUNBUS portfolio of industrial communication modules, including the Revolution PI series, is now available from RS Components for delivery in South Africa and across Sub-Saharan Africa.    This article was published in partnership with RS Components.