Fujikura Ltd, a Japanese company founded in February 1885 by Zenpachi Fujikura, originally sold hair braiding paraphernalia. With the advent of electricity, Zenpachi decided to use his knowledge of the hair braiding industry to start Fujikura Electrical Company. Optical fibre was successfully developed in 1970 by Corning Glass Works. However, a big challenge posed by this new technology was the joining of two fibre strands. No such technology existed; however, in 1978, Fujikura developed the first Splice Machine – Fujikura FR-1. By 1980 single mode fibre was developed and in 1985 Fujikura launched the world’s first fully automated Arc Fusion Splicing Machine – the F-20. This was the first splicer to use the PAS system – now common in all modern splicing machines. Over the years Fujikura has grown to be an industrial giant with over 50,000 employees and clocking over $6 Billion per annum. They have become one of the largest cable manufacturers in the world, specialising in many industries including power and telecoms systems energy, telecommunications, electronics, automotive products, superconductors, medical devices, real estate, and many more. Today, Fujikura is a worldwide brand known to be at the forefront of splice machine technology as well as other technologies. IC Logistix (Pty) Ltd. (ICL) was founded in 2011 when an opportunity arrived to attain the distribution rights for Fujikura Splicer Equipment and Accessories Department in Southern Africa. ICL is an importer and distributor of specialised technology and equipment. Their key focus is on the telecommunications market holding the distributorship in Fujikura, as well as AFL Test and Certification Department, AFL- Hyperscale, Softing, Ripley, and more. They also resell several market leading brands like Plumettaz and CBS. Fujikura, in conjunction with ICL, has launched a once-in-a-lifetime promotion to help uplift the fibre market in South Africa. The deal is a trade-in promotion and the aim is to help and support those who want to get rid of their old splice machines. Technology has advanced so much in recent years, and this is an opportunity to upgrade at an affordable price. The older generation splice machines, for instance, do not do core alignment splices on the more modern G.657 Bend-insensitive fibre. Trade-in your old core-alignment splicer of any brand and purchase the flagship, state-of-the-art Fujikura-70S+ complete kit for only R59 ,995 (excl. VAT). The 70S+ kit comes complete with the new Bluetooth CT50 cleaver.   These pieces of equipment communicate with each other and your smart device via Bluetooth. Blade rotation on the cleaver is AI controlled based on the information sent to the splicer unit. The 70S+ is also the only automated splicer on the market and splices in just 4 steps, while other splicers use 9 steps. This means you get 6 second splicing and 9 second heating in the unique duel-element oven. ICL’s local calibration lab is certified by Fujikura for all service and repairs. ICL also offers a 1-year maintenance plan included and a 3-year factory warranty. The promotion ends on 31 August 2019. For more information, contact ICL on +2711 521 2353, via email: iclsales@icl.co.za, or visit their website: www.icl.co.za.  This article was published in partnership with IC Logistix.