Wireless printers, also known as WiFi printers, can connect to a network without needing to be hard-wired/cabled into that network. Once a wireless printer is connected to a WiFi network, the computers, smartphones and tablets also connected to that network can print to the WiFi printer. You can place a wireless printer anywhere that is convenient for you, as long as it has a strong signal between the printer and wireless router. Wireless printers are convenient because they allow you to print from multiple, distributed devices to one easily accessible location. WiFi printers and wireless all-in-one printers enable easy mobile printing from smartphones and tablets, and there are fewer unsightly cords to trip over. Mobile and Cloud Print Several Xerox wireless printers — such as Xerox ConnectKey technology-enabled AltaLink and VersaLink printers and multifunction printers (MFPs) — include many options for mobile and cloud print capabilities: Wireless printer setup varies depending on the type of wireless printer you choose. Usually you’ll need the name of your network (SSID) and network password before you begin. You may need to temporarily attach the printer to a networked computer via network cable for software installation/setup. Many Xerox WiFi printers and WiFi all-in-one printers come with automated set-up wizards, making it very easy to get started with wireless printing. For instructions specific to your wireless printer, please visit our customer knowledge base and search for your product model. Next, choose “Support” and then search for “wireless” or “wifi” or the specific application you want to use (i.e., “Google Cloud Print”). Types of Xerox Wireless Printers/Wireless All-in-One Printers What is the best wireless printer for your needs? We offer several ways to print wirelessly. You can choose a Xerox printer with built-in WiFi print features, or add on wireless printing options or adapters. If you want WiFi printing built-in, then one of our newer wireless printers or wireless all-in-one printers is best for you. Look at Xerox ConnectKey technology-enabled AltaLink and VersaLink printers and multifunction printers first, which make mobile and cloud printing a priority. Otherwise, wireless printing comes standard on some of our Phaser printers and WorkCentre multi-function printers, and is optional on other models in these product families. For more information, visit the Altron Bytes Document Solutions website. your This article was published in partnership with Altron Bytes Document Solutions.