ConceptD is a new brand of high-end Windows 10 desktops, notebooks, and monitors that are optimised for graphic designers, filmmakers, engineers, architects, developers and other creators. The new brand in the Acer stable enables designers to get immersed in the creative process and achieve remarkable end results. “One of the most noteworthy features of the ConceptD devices is the timeless design, featuring pure-white or matte-black finishes on the laptops and a white finish and smooth curves for a minimalist-inspired design on the desktop units,” said Belinda Marais, Acer Africa Marketing Manager. The ConceptD 900 and 500 high-end desktops are allow for high-end visual effects rendering, complex 3D modeling, simulations, as well as AI and deep learning development. The high core count brings load times down and multitasking to the extreme while achieving enterprise-class reliability, stability, and security. Design applications such as Autodesk Arnold and Unreal Engine accelerate workflows for video editors, graphics designers, animators and 3D artists, photographers and broadcasters alike. ConceptD 9, 7, and 5 creator notebooks feature the ConceptD timeless design, and 4K UHD IPS[2] PANTONE Validated displays. Covering 100 percent of the Adobe RGB colour gamut, creators can be sure that their colours are as accurate as possible. With a wide colour gamut, displays achieve an impressive accuracy of as low as Delta E <1. These creator notebooks stay quiet with Acer’s 4th gen AeroBlade™ 3D Fan with a noise reduction mechanism that emits less than 40 db of noise — equivalent to the sound level of a library — while maintaining high computing and graphics performance. The range also include monitors featuring a remarkable colour accuracy of modern slick, black finish with a wood-patterned base, these new PANTONE Validated monitors are optimised so creators can do more. The ConceptD will be available in South Africa from September,pricing has not been confirmed yet Exact specifications, prices, and availability will vary by region. To learn more about availability, product specifications and prices in specific markets, please contact your nearest Acer office via www.acer.com. The new ConceptD high-end desktops, notebooks, and monitors for creators were unveiled today at the next@acer press event held in New York, where the company announced a range of new devices and solutions for gamers, creators [2] All brands and product names mentioned herein include trademarks of their respective companies and are used solely to describe or identify the products This article was published in partnership with Acer Africa.