Canon’s two instant camera printers, the Canon Zoemini S and Canon Zoemini C, is a new product range and the perfect pocket-sized companions for encouraging creativity with easy to print, peel-and-stick photos on the go. The Canon Zoemini S is ideal for those wanting to capture, print and share their holiday adventures, a spontaneous selfie, photos with friends or an Instagram-worthy plate of food. Consisting of an eight-megapixel camera, front-mounted mirror, ring-light and remote shutter capability, the Canon Zoemini S is easy to use and ready to take the perfect selfie in an instant. The Canon Zoemini S comes in three stylish finishes; rose gold, matte black and pearl white and fits seamlessly into the palm of a hand, pocket or small backpack. Whether out shopping with friends, celebrating a birthday party or attending a music festival, Canon Zoemini S and Canon Zoemini C users can shoot and print mini photos in a matter of moments on 2×3-Inch (5 x 7.6cm) Zink sticky-backed photo paper. Capturing everyday moments has never been easier or more fun with these compact and lightweight gadgets. The Canon Zoemini S is supported by the free-to-download Canon Mini Print App (iOS/Android), which enables users to print their images directly from a smart device using Bluetooth as well as edit from an array of creative filters and frames. Users can also remove the challenge of capturing group selfies, simply by using the Canon Mini Print App’s remote shutter and self-timer function, so no one will be out of shot. In addition to Instagram and Facebook, the Canon Mini Print app enables users connect with Google Photos and Dropbox, so they can print physical copies of treasured memories while out and about. [1] Photos taken with Zoemini S can be saved to the Micro SD card. Images cannot be uploaded to Zoemini S from the card [2] Photos taken with Zoemini C can be saved to the Micro SD card. Images cannot be uploaded to Zoemini C from the card. This article was published in partnership with Canon.