MyBroadband Business, which offers South African ICT companies and agencies a range of innovative new marketing tools to grow their presence, has been launched. MyBroadband Business is the official agency of MyBroadband and BusinessTech, the country’s biggest technology and business news websites. It uses a range of channels to ensure an excellent marketing performance, and works closely with companies and other marketing agencies to create groundbreaking campaigns. Three things set MyBroadband Business apart from traditional digital and PR agencies: This is possible because MyBroadband Business has access to in-depth research and knowledge about the South African IT and telecoms market – which is used to build custom campaigns for companies. It also has direct access to the biggest tech publications in South Africa, the most prominent conferences, and influential social media channels. All these resources are then used to ensure ICT companies reach the right audience to promote their products and services. MyBroadband Business uses the latest measurement technologies to ensure the performance of a client’s campaigns is tracked accurately and optimised to perform exceptionally. In its trial campaigns, which were run in partnership with high-profile South African ICT companies, exceptional results were obtained across all fronts. These campaigns outperformed all other online and PR marketing channels, with a record number of website visitors, leads, and brand awareness. Former MyBroadband editor Kevin Lancaster heads up MyBroadband Business and is confident that they offer ICT companies an unmatched value proposition. “We know what IT companies and consumers want, what trends they are following, and what content they are going to be served,” said Lancaster. “We use this information to build innovative campaigns which give IT companies a tremendous benefit over their competitors.” He said that MyBroadband Business has the best-quality IT journalists, designers, videographers, and researchers to serve their clients’ needs. “We offer ICT companies and our partner agencies access to the best marketing tools on offer in South Africa. There is simply no better way to promote your company,” said Lancaster. For more information, visit the MyBroadband Business website.