Many car makers are currently developing self-driving car technology, and the car insurance industry needs to adapt to this trend in the future. Would a world where people no longer drive cars mean that your car insurance premium would be calculated any differently? Would your car insurance fall into a different category? Would your premium depend on the reputation of the self-driving technology your car had, and not the driver’s age or driving history? What would your insurer say if you were in a car accident while your car was driving itself? Let’s investigate further. For now, semi-autonomous, privately-owned cars are a reality in some countries. Tesla’s cars have an ‘autopilot’ feature, and Tesla says that “Autopilot advanced safety and convenience features are designed to assist you with the most burdensome parts of driving.” Tesla announced last month that it will start offering its own car insurance to its customers. Elon Musk said this car insurance product would “be much more compelling than anything else out there.” Industry experts at Automotive News believe that Tesla could offer lower premiums for their cars compared to other insurers. It is believed that the use of autopilot would reduce the rate that Tesla car owners would claim for accidents. Tesla will tap into their cars’ internal autopilot data to reduce car insurance premiums. Apparently, the more often the autopilot feature is used, the less likely the driver will have a car accident. Tesla hopes to launch its first dealership in South Africa by the end of this year according to a tweet by Musk. Fully self-driving cars are not yet available to the general public. Some believe that cars will never be truly autonomous and that humans will always play a role. John Krafcik, CEO of Waymo, Alphabet’s self-driving technology and taxi service, once said: “Autonomy always will have some constraints.” Nevertheless, Waymo describes it’s ‘Waymo Driver’ as an “autonomous taxi [that] sees in all directions, is constantly vigilant, and has millions of miles of experience.” Whether all future cars become semi-autonomous or fully autonomous, car insurance companies will need to prepare for a world where cars may drive themselves. In the meantime, sign up to Prime Meridian Direct car insurance. Starting from just R165 per month, put your mind at rest with this fantastic offer. Click here to learn more. <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> This article was published in partnership with Prime Meridian Direct.