Investing your money in the stock market can be an effective way to develop a sound financial portfolio. It has the potential to offer big returns on your investment that are almost impossible to secure through other strategies. However, it can be a difficult investing strategy to get involved in due to all the red tape that surrounds organising stock purchases through brokers. This is one of the main reasons that many people choose other investments that allow them more direct control over their money. However, there is a quick and easy way to process your stock market trades without operating through a middleman. Mexem is an online share trading platform that allows you to make trades quickly and easily without working through a broker. That means no more calling up your broker every time you want to buy or sell shares – it’s all available to do with just a few clicks! Mexem acts as an “introducing broker” in emerging markets for the largest trading platform in the USA, Interactive Brokers. Mexem simply translates Interactive Brokers’ offerings to these markets. This allows South African investors access to over 120 markets across 23 countries. Mexem also offers some of the lowest commission fees in the industry, ensuring that your investment wins aren’t swallowed up by exorbitant trading fees. Compared to other share trading platforms available to South Africans, Mexem stands out because its minimum commission figure is a fraction of the competition’s. This is illustrated in the table below. As you can see, Mexem stands out from the competition as the trading platform that offers users the best value for their investment money. Mexem does not charge its clients management fees, unlike many other platforms, which means that the expense you see is the expense you will pay. It also doesn’t limit you just to trading in stocks. Other investment types available on its platform include futures, bonds, metals and ETFs. Try out their platform today and get investing! This article was published in partnership with Mexem.