The LINK Centre at WITS University is the academic partner of THREAT2019 which is a unique cybersecurity conference in that it brings together thought leaders, strategists and practitioners from government, industry and academia to discuss, debate and formulate responses to cybersecurity threats that organisations and government face on a daily basis. The Triple Helix cybeR sEcurity Africa summiT (THREAT) will provide a high-level overview of cybersecurity, delving into various issues including how cybersecurity should be approached in an emerging legislative framework. “Government departments are at the nexus of cybersecurity threats and mitigation, being responsible for formulating cybersecurity policies and legislation, while at the same time being persistent targets of cyber attacks. This makes THREAT2019 an imperative for public sector officials to participate, bringing rich debate to the plenary sessions and panel discussions,” said Professor Manoj Maharaj, Conference Chair. These panel discussions are a key differentiator between THREAT2019 and other events as they encourage audience participation. All the peer reviewed academic contributions and keynote addresses will be published in the official conference proceedings. In addition, at the conclusion of the conference, edited summaries of the panel discussions will be published in an updated form. This document will be available as a free download to anybody, while registered participants at THREAT2019 will have persistent access to a regularly updated document reflecting current developments. The standard proceedings, ISBN 978-0-620-83179-6, will be published in the week preceding the conference. Topics covered at THREAT2019 will include: There will be 18 invited keynote talks from leading experts, and 13 peer reviewed academic research presentations. Some of the confirmed speakers are: Maharaj said that he hoped that this would become a regular forum, under the THREAT banner, for the exchange of ideas within the cybersecurity community in Africa. Maharaj urged those interested in contributing to the discussion to register. THREAT2019 will take place on 26 and 27 June at the HB Connect Conference Centre in Sandton, Johannesburg. This article was published in partnership with Cybersecurity Institute Africa.