Silicon Overdrive, a full-stack IT Solutions and Software Development firm, have announced that they reached a new business milestone; achieving Advanced Consulting Partner status in the Amazon Web Services (AWS) Partner Network (APN). To qualify as an APN Advanced Consulting Partner, Silicon Overdrive must continuously meet precise and stringent requirements that demonstrate the scale of its AWS expertise and capabilities. “After an exceptional year, Silicon Overdrive is delighted to announce that they achieved APN Advanced Consulting Partner, AWS Solutions Provider, and AWS Public Sector Partner status,” said Ross Davie, Business Development Director at Silicon Overdrive. “We look forward to delivering our customers an even greater depth of expertise across further AWS services.” As an APN Advanced Consulting Partner, Silicon Overdrive provides AWS cloud infrastructure managed services including architecting, migration, software replatforming, security, maintenance, and monitoring of AWS environments with a security and compliance emphasis. One of the most significant advantages of Silicon Overdrive becoming an APN Advanced Consulting Partner is that they can now evaluate their customers’ existing environment against the AWS Well-Architected Framework. The AWS Well-Architected Framework has been developed to help cloud architects build secure, high-performing, resilient, and efficient infrastructure for their applications. Based on five pillars — operational excellence, security, reliability, performance efficiency, and cost optimization — the AWS Well-Architected Framework provides a consistent approach for customers and partners to evaluate architectures and implement designs that will scale over time. By drawing on decades of operational knowledge with over 20 years in the IT Industry, and by having an in-depth understanding of the services that AWS offers, Silicon Overdrive can identify and implement the best solutions for your business needs. As an APN Advanced Consulting Partner, AWS Solutions Provider, and AWS Public Sector Partner, Silicon Overdrive has the experience and expertise to also assist Government, Education, and Not for Profit organisations in the public sector community. With Silicon Overdrive’s deep expertise on AWS, they help customers at virtually any stage of the cloud adoption journey and to help them achieve your business objectives. You can read the case studies about how Silicon Overdrive has implemented AWS solutions to help companies like DPO Paygate, Electrum Payments, and the University of Pretoria on their AWS information page. Contact Silicon Overdrive today. This article was published in partnership with Silicon Overdrive.