Afrihost Mobile recently rebranded as Air Mobile and has now officially launched its new prepaid data packages. Air Mobile runs on MTN’s mobile network and offers both prepaid data and voice bundles. The network also offers new customers 1GB free data every month for three months after they sign up, and customers are able to continue receiving this free data every month onwards by spending at least R69 on mobile data per month. Users with an MTN prepaid SIM card can sign up for Air Mobile using their mobile number to begin receiving 1GB free data every month. Air Mobile customers can purchase mobile data bundles of up to 5GB and and voice bundles of up to 1,000 minutes through the Afrihost app. It should be noted that while Afrihost technically is not required to comply with ICASA’s End-User and Subscriber Service Charter due to it being a mobile virtual network operator (MVNO) operating on MTN’s network, it has stated that its data bundles will last for 60 days, and the transferal of these bundles can be facilitated through the Afrihost app. To see how Air Mobile’s data bundles compare to other operators, we compared the price of the network’s packages to equivalent prepaid bundles from Vodacom, MTN, Cell C, and Telkom. Where a network had a slightly different bundle size to Air Mobile, we demonstrated this next to the price of the bundle. Prices are rounded to the nearest rand and sourced directly from the websites of the mobile operators. Bonus and night-time data was not included. Below are the prices of Air Mobile’s once-off data bundles compared to other mobile networks in South Africa. The data above shows that Air Mobile offers competitive rates compared to other mobile networks, only beaten by Cell C in terms of once-off data bundle pricing. However, it is important to note that Cell C’s data bundles are only valid for 30 days as opposed to Air Mobile’s 60-day bundles. Air Mobile also offers prepaid voice bundles, which are priced at a flat R1-per-minute rate and are available in the following sizes: