Powerbite owner and Bulls player Duncan Matthews has opened the first Apple-certified pre-owned shop in Seapoint, Cape Town. Powerbite offers used Apple tech with a 1-year quality guarantee. Customers can also choose to trade in their older model for a newer model or just sell their older model for cash. Powerbite recently opened its first store at Artem Centre, Seapoint, with new stores planned for Durbanville and Johannesburg. Powerbite realised the need for safety and assurance when buying second-hand tech in South Africa. Often people find a good bargain on the marketplace or other classifieds only to find their device is blocked after 6 months due to bad debt by the seller, or the seller having claimed the sold device from insurance. Buying from Powerbite means you get a lifetime guarantee against a device getting blocked – whatever the reason. By buying certified, pre-owned Apple products you can expect to save up to R10,000 on a purchase. At the time of writing, an iPhone Xs 256GB would cost you R23,999. However, at Powerbite you could get the same device for only R16,999 – saving you R7,000. Similarly, buying a new 13-inch Macbook Pro (2017 model) would cost you R25,999 compared to R18,999 for the same CPO model. Powerbite also allows customers to buy from anywhere in South Africa. When you buy online you get 10 days to confirm whether you are happy with the overall condition of your CPO device. If you aren’t satisfied, you can have it replaced or apply for a refund. Shipping is free anywhere in SA and delivery takes approximately 1-2 business days. Powerbite was founded by professional rugby player Duncan Matthews. The company currently employs 11 people and is based at Loftus Versfeld Stadium, Pretoria. “Technology is the future and goes a long way in creating opportunities for unemployed youngsters. We live in an age where you can start a business with just an Instagram account. Therefore, it’s crucial that we make technology affordable to everyone in South Africa,” said Matthews. For more information, you can visit the Powerbite website.    This article was published in partnership with TheCellStore.