Selling your car can be an incredibly daunting task. There are a variety of businesses looking to buy second-hand cars, but many of them may be untrustworthy, or unwilling to give you a fair price for your vehicle. Additionally, it can be a tremendous hassle to go through the process of selling your car – which is something you want to avoid when trying to get cash for your vehicle. That’s why it is important to sell your car with an institution that is trustworthy and efficient – such as Bidvest McCarthy. Bidvest McCarthy is synonymous with quality and trust, making them a great option when selling your car. They boast an extensive range of second-hand vehicles and are always looking to add to this catalogue. Their efficiency in the selling process is equally important. Bidvest McCarthy offers same-day car selling on their website, mccarthy.co.za, ensuring that your car is sold and out of your name as soon as possible. They also offer immediate payment – which is helpful, whether you’re looking to buy a new car, or want access to cash for another reason. All of this is possible on Bidvest McCarthy’s website – mccarthy.co.za To sell your car, simply visit Bidvest McCarthy’s Sell My Car portal. You will be taken through a quick and simple process where you will be asked to enter information about your car such as the model, year, and mileage. Once you have entered this information, you will be asked to submit your contact information. Bidvest McCarthy will then get back to you and organise a physical evaluation. Once the evaluation is complete, Bidvest McCarthy will present you with an offer. If you accept this offer, the payment process is quick and painless, and you will have immediate access to your cash. Their call centre will take care of all the admin for you; you can rest easy! If you’re looking to sell your car, why not submit your car’s details to Bidvest McCarthy on their mccarthy.co.za website and get an offer? There is no obligation to accept the offer, and you may be surprised at how much they are willing to pay. You can either visit any of Bidvest McCarthy’s 85 dealerships or ask for their mobile team to come to your home. Due to the extensive reach of their franchise network, they can also facilitate the purchase of your next car. This helps if you are looking to upscale or downscale your vehicle. Visit Bidvest McCarthy’s website now and get an offer – you could have cash in your pocket before the end of the day! This article was published in partnership with Bidvest McCarthy.