Security is one of the most important elements in the context of running a successful enterprise. This has been proven by predictions from Cybersecurity Ventures, which suggest that cybersecurity damages could reach as much as $1 trillion by 2021. Further research by IDC shows that 70% of security breaches begin at endpoints – from servers to mobile devices. With this in mind, it is crucial that you implement Unified Endpoint Management (UEM) within your enterprise to protect these popular targets for cybercriminals. UEM is an IT management technique that takes already-existing mobile device management security practices and bundles new ones into a centralised management platform. This helps businesses take care of all devices connected to your network – whether inside or outside the network – from a single location. Most organisations’ IT environments consist of a variety of machines across multiple departments. These can operate on different software and security configurations – meaning that some teams need more security measures than others, and the security measures needed are often different. UEM allows you to manage each system separately, but from a single platform. Enterprises need to manage massive amounts of data, and tracking it can be incredibly challenging. Data progresses through a variety of touchpoints, all of which can be used to compromise the integrity of this data if not protected effectively. This also goes against POPI compliance and could result in high penalties. An effective UEM helps in the management of this data – whether it is being transmitted from or to desktop, laptop, mobile, or other devices. You can even locate lost devices geographically to find them before they are stolen and before the data on them is compromised. Patch management and implementation is also of critical importance to enterprises. If your systems aren’t up to date, your enterprise will be underprepared to deal with any threats. Sometimes, however, you also need to roll back patches – for example, if the patch is buggy. Buggy patches can result in performance issues or even security flaws. UEM through ITR Technology enables all of this and much more thanks to how it centralises system management to a single platform. ITR’s UEM solution can also allow for the implementation of unique fixes of such patches if this is required. ITR Technology’s UEM solution isn’t limited to the aforementioned practices and uses. Other important best practices that their UEM product can assist with include: To learn more about these and other best practices, as well as to learn more about what UEM can do for your enterprise, download this valuable whitepaper. This article was published in partnership with ITR Technology.