XDN Office (Xerox) has recently partnered with Glenwood High School as a service provider for all their printing requirements. The production printing devices installed will handle the high volume and help to ease the pressure of printing during peak periods. They have also installed many office multi-function colour devices, and teachers and pupils are benefiting from the devices new featured. The Xerox devices have excellent security features and detailed reporting programs to allow the school to manage their usage and coverage, saving costs and time. XDN Office (Xerox) always strives to create value for customers by giving them excellent support and high-performance printing devices. XDN is honoured to have the business and loyalty of a prestigious and established school such as Glenwood High and is committed to work hard to achieve the goal which unites them to their customers: achieving excellence together. From humble beginnings in 1910, when there were just 26 boys on the roll, Glenwood High School has grown to be one of the leading schools in KZN and South Africa. Sport was introduced from the very beginning and has remained an integral part of the School ever since. The name was changed to the “Technical High School, Durban” in 1915. By the end of WWI in 1918, 25 Old Boys and 1 staff member had made the supreme sacrifice. To this day, they are still remembered (together with WWII casualties) on memorials around the School and at annual Remembrance services. In January 1929 the School was able to move into its present premises in McDonald Rd and the name was changed to its present name, “Glenwood High School” in 1934. In 1935 the “Government Schools Hostel” was opened; after WWII the name was changed to “Gibson House” in memory of Roy Gibson, an outstanding sportsman and one of the original boarders who had died in WWII. The outbreak of war in 1939 saw hundreds of Old Boys volunteer for service. By the time the war ended in 1945, 124 Old Boys and 2 teachers had died in service of their country. At the beginning of 1947, a War Memorial fund was established to perpetuate, in tangible form, the memory of those who had died in both world wars. In 1951 the Memorial Swimming Pool was opened. Between 1950 and 1960 the School went from strength to strength and was one of the top schools in KZN in both academic and sporting fields. As numbers increased, so did the School’s appearance. Between 1960 and 2012 a Drawing/Science wing was added, the sport fields were extended, the “Fortress Block” overlooking the main field, 3 squash court and the Mike Turrell Pavilion raised overlooking the swimming pool, with the Ivan Clark Pavilion. Glenwood is much more than the achievements of a few talented individuals. It has provided an education for thousands of boys over the last century and, will continue to do so for many years into the future. Xerox develops a variety of leading-edge technologies that generate innovative products, solutions, services and. XDN Office (Xerox) is excited to partner with Glenwood High School and look forward to a long and mutually rewarding relationship. This article was published in partnership with Altron Bytes Document Solutions.