Electric vehicles have become an important part of the motor industry, with many traditional car manufacturers looking to break into this growing market. However, South African motorists currently have a limited number of electric vehicles to choose from, with only three fully-electric vehicles being available in the country. This is one of several reasons that electric vehicles are not popular in South Africa, with statistics from March last year showing that there were only 867 electric vehicles operating in the country. Other reasons that South Africans aren’t buying electric vehicles include power grid uncertainty and high prices. There are many electric vehicles available outside of South Africa which would pique the interest of some consumers if they launched locally. Here are some of the best electric vehicles you can’t buy in South Africa.  The Tesla Model 3 is the best selling full-electric vehicle of all time. It is designed as an affordable alternative to Tesla’s more expensive vehicles, and costs $35,000 in the United States. The standard version can travel up to 220 miles on one charge and includes high-end features, such as 360-degree cameras, nearby car detection, and a 15-inch touch screen display.  The Chevrolet Bolt has one of the longest EPA ranges of any electric vehicle at 238 miles. It is also reasonably-priced, coming in at $37,495 – a similar price to the Tesla Model 3. The Bolt sports a 10.2-inch touch screen and is a solid and relatively-affordable family vehicle.  The Kona offers an even better range than the Chevrolet Bolt, allowing its driver to travel 258 miles before needing to recharge. Sporting a 150kW motor, it delivers 201 horsepower, providing potent performance to power-hungry drivers. Despite its impressive specifications, this vehicle costs just $36,450 – making it another fairly affordable electric vehicle.  Based on the popular Volkswagen Golf, the e-Golf is a fully-electric vehicle with a similar design to the traditional model. It has an EPA of around 117 miles per charge and features a 100kW electric motor capable of generating up to 134 horsepower, which is more than enough for most city drivers. It also features a 12-inch touch-screen display that shows information including speed, estimated range, travel time to route guidance, and assistance systems. The Volkswagen e-Golf begins at $31,895 – making it an affordable option for consumers.  The Model S is the original Tesla sedan, targeted at customers willing to spend more money for a truly impressive electric vehicle. It can accelerate from 0-100km/h in just 2.4 seconds and offers an incredible range of 370 miles. It can reach a top speed of 262km/h and offers all-wheel drive for optimal control in any weather conditions. However, it is very expensive, setting buyers back at least $86,200.  The Model X is a seven-seater SUV and caters to a similar market as the Model S. It can achieve an EPA-approved range of 325 miles and delivers 0-100km/h acceleration in just 2.7 seconds – which Tesla claims makes it the “quickest SUV on earth.” It also includes an impressive 17-inch display and a 5-star safety rating. The Model X costs a minimum of $90,700, with this price increasing depending on which version and add-ons you purchase.