The new BMW 3 Series is the smartest sedan on the road today – and signals a new era in what drivers can expect from their car. BMW has focussed on implementing the latest technology in the new BMW 3 Series while maintaining the car’s status as a luxury sedan with exceptional performance and great looks. On the technology side, this sees the vehicle fitted with BMW’s voice-activated Intelligent Personal Assistant – an advanced system powered by artificial intelligence and the company’s Open Mobility Cloud. Other additions to the BMW 3 Series include Parking Assistant Plus, a Reversing Assistant, and Driving Assistant Professional, which offers steering and lane control assistance during critical or monotonous driving situations. The inclusion of a “digital key” for owners further exemplifies BMW’s focus on cutting-edge technology in the car and lets users with an Android smartphone lock and unlock their vehicle – and start its engine – without the physical key. BMW digital key ideally needs to be inserted here somewhere. The first thing you will notice about the new BMW 3 Series, however, is the striking new design at the front of the vehicle. It features a broader and sportier double kidney grille just below the bonnet, forming the elegant face of the car. The grille flows outwards towards the front laser headlights, and slopes towards the sporty lines which run along the sides of the vehicle. These lines culminate in the iconic Hofmeister kink behind the rear window, which then transition to the aggressive rear of the BMW 3 Series and its distinct L-shaped lights. BMW has also upgraded the interior of the vehicle to produce a modern and clean cabin. This is augmented by the company’s Live Cockpit Professional platform, providing drivers with a high-resolution 12.3-inch instrument display and 10.25-inch control display.  Initially in South Africa, the new BMW 3 Series is available in 330i and 320d models. The 330i packs a turbo-charged 2.0-litre petrol engine which produces 190kW and 400Nm of torque. This propels the car from 0-100km/h in 5.8 seconds and will achieve an electronically-limited top speed of 250km/h. The 320d model is fitted with a turbo-charged 2.0-litre diesel engine which puts out 140kW and 400Nm of toque. It achieves a top speed of 240km/h and will go from 0-100km/h in 6.8 seconds. Both engines offer excellent fuel efficiency, and deliver the following combined fuel consumption levels: These engines are paired with an 8-speed Steptronic Sport transmission, which offers automatic changes or manual shifts via paddles fitted to the steering wheel. The new BMW 3 Series is now available from local from BMW dealers. For more information go to bmw.co.za/3.  This article was published in partnership with BMW.