Many South Africans are looking for opportunities abroad, and the good news for IT professionals is that there is a strong demand for many tech skills. The UK, New Zealand, and Australia are all looking for engineers, programmers, graphic designers, and telecoms professionals to work in their country. To attract skilled professionals, these countries offer skilled-based visas to people with the right experience and qualifications. Australia’s skill stream, for example, is by far the most popular way for South Africans to move to the country, with 4,419 South African applicants on this visa type in 2016/17. Here is a summary of the tech jobs which are frequently featured on the skills lists of Australia, New Zealand and the UK. To combat a so-called ‘Brexodus’ – the departure of talented professionals or companies leaving the UK due to Brexit – the UK has taken action. The Migration Advisory Committee (MAC) has updated its recommended shortage occupation list (SOL) by adding new occupations and expanding current jobs. Some of the most notable technology and engineering jobs on the revised recommended SOL list include: Australia has undergone several visa reforms over the last year in a bid to curb high immigration levels. This includes reducing the number of jobs which would be eligible for a temporary visa by over 200 occupations and a possible ban on immigrants moving to Sydney and Melbourne. There is, however, still a strong demand for skills in Australia as cities are becoming more developed and rural areas are becoming more urban. In both the big cities and regional territories, the key skills of trade workers are needed to support this development. However, they are not the only jobs in demand, and the Australian Department of Home Affairs keeps a detailed list of these occupations as well as the visa you would need to apply: New Zealand has published its updated Essential Skills in Demand (ESID) lists for 2019, highlighting the jobs that foreigners could help to fill. The country currently has three different lists – long term, immediate, and regional – that record the skill shortages it faces. If a job is on a list, a New Zealand business can apply for a visa for a qualified worker from overseas. The most in-demand tech skills which feature on the shortage list include: Source: BusinessTech