As high-end smartphones have become smarter, so too have they become exorbitantly expensive. This is why many people are instead opting to buy mid-range smartphones, which still offer powerful features, but at a drastically reduced cost. With its new Xperia 10 range, Sony is staking its claim as a big player in the mid-range smartphone market. The Xperia 10 and Xperia 10 Plus smartphones offer truly impressive features without breaking the bank. The Xperia 10 range are truly attractive smartphones. The Xperia 10 and 10 Plus both offer streamlined aesthetics due to their sleek lines and accentuated curves. These smartphones have a distinct look due to their 21:9 display ratio – offering widescreen content consumption on the go. This design choice also ensures that you can run two apps side-by-side in a resolution that is well-suited to providing this functionality. Both smartphones feel light and comfortable to hold – whether you’re using your phone in the traditional portrait mode, or have rotated your smartphone to watch a movie. Due to their slim form factor, they’re easy to hold and easy to slip into narrow pockets. For mid-range smartphones, the Xperia 10 range offers some truly outstanding features. These smartphones offer 4K video recording in the same resolution that film makers use, although other resolutions such as 1:1 are also possible for apps like Instagram. Their dual-camera system offers powerful features such as optical zoom and the artistic Bokeh effect, which separates the subject from its background. The Xperia 10 is powered by a Snapdragon 630 chipset, while the 10 Plus uses a Snapdragon 636. Both chipsets, alongside 3GB and 4GB RAM respectively, will ensure that your smartphone runs smoothly and can take on power-intensive activities with ease. Both smartphones also offer high-quality audio features such as LDAC technology and a Digital Sound Enhancement Engine, which upscales compressed audio files to ensure they offer the best possible audio performance. Despite the “10” naming convention, which is used for the high-end, expensive smartphones from several other smartphone brands, these Sony Xperia smartphones are not competing in this price bracket. This means that they will not set you back tens of thousands of rand. Instead, the Xperia 10 is available for just R6,499, while the Xperia 10 Plus costs just R8,999 – both smartphones offering incredible value for money as mid-range offerings. Pick one up today from your nearest retailer. This article was published in partnership with Sony Mobile.