Many people have been reporting problems with Telkom’s email system over the past two weeks. Users with “@telkomsa.net” email addresses have been encountering major issues with their mail service, being unable to send or receive mail for days on end. These users also reported limited or no access to Telkom’s webmail client for extended periods of time. One user with a Telkom email account told MyBroadband that they were unable to send or receive mail for over two days, while many others reported one or two-day outages. When a MyBroadband reader called Telkom support to confirm the most recent outage, they were told that the service was down with no ETA on resolution. Users first began reporting problems with Telkom’s email service at the end of last month, with a number of customers contacting MyBroadband regarding the issue. On 27 May 2019, Telkom support staff confirmed to a frustrated customer that it had identified an issue with mailboxes being unable to receive mail, adding that they were working to resolve the problem. Another customer said he was told that the company’s email services were impacted due to a Symantec Message Gateway issue. This issue was eventually resolved and Telkom customers were able to send and receive emails once again, although this did not last long. MyBroadband started receiving reports of Telkom’s email service being down again from 5 June, with this downtime lasting a number of days as well. It is unclear whether all customers were affected by these issues or what caused the problem to reoccur. MyBroadband asked Telkom to provide feedback on both separate occurrences on downtime. In response to queries sent regarding the email service downtime on 27 May 2019, Telkom attributed its email problems to a third-party spam-filtering service. “This past weekend, a third-party service used by Telkom which assists in managing spam and malware experienced minor issues,” Telkom said. “This caused email queues for some Telkom mail customers, who may not have been able to send or receive emails during that period.” Telkom told MyBroadband that this issue was resolved on 27 May. MyBroadband contacted Telkom regarding the email service outage which began on 5 June 2019, but the company did not respond by the time of publication.