MTN recently presented its interim financial results, outlining its finances for the six months ended 30 June 2019. These results reflect a few interesting figures – most notably the mobile operator’s subscriber numbers and its service revenue in South Africa. At face value, MTN South Africa’s figures showed that it had 5.9 million postpaid (contract) subscribers and 23.3 million prepaid subscribers. This is on par with Vodacom in the contract customer space, which had 5.9 million postpaid subscribers and 37.9 million prepaid customers as of 30 June 2019. There is a crucial difference to how these companies report their subscribers, however, and MTN’s method inflates its reported postpaid users to reflect a competitive figure when, in fact, it has less than half the contract customers of Vodacom. Financial results include data sheets which show a number of important figures, such as average revenue per user (ARPU), subscriber numbers, and data revenue. Postpaid customers are far superior to prepaid in terms of the income they bring in for mobile operators, and as such, the ARPU reflections for this subscriber base are an important measure of the company’s revenue from its contract customers. MTN’s results include an oddity in the ARPU for its South African subscribers. Specifically, it includes separate ARPU figures for postpaid subscriber and for “postpaid (excluding telemetry)”. Telemetry subscribers refer to SIMs which are used in various tracking, monitoring, and low-data devices, and for this reason, the average revenue per telemetry subscriber is relatively low. It may be tempting to dismiss this as unimportant business jargon with no bearing on simple subscriber numbers, but it turns out that these telemetry numbers are very important to MTN’s growth claims. By including its telemetry subscribers in its postpaid user base, MTN increases its contract customer base to seem competitive with other players like Vodacom. At a previous Vodacom results presentation, MyBroadband asked the company’s CEO, Shameel Joosub, whether Vodacom included telemetry customers within its postpaid subscriber figures. Joosub said that Vodacom declared its telemetry subscriber figures separately and that its postpaid subscriber numbers reflected actual contract customers. Therefore, while MTN SA claims to have the same number of postpaid subscribers as Vodacom, it actually has much less due to the inclusion of telemetry customers in its contract subscriber figures. To find the true number of MTN contract subscribers, we needed to determine the number of telemetry customers on MTN’s network. This figure is not reflected under the Subscribers section in the company’s data sheets, but is only mentioned once – in a separate section at the end of the results which also includes the company’s market share in its various operating regions. South Africa is the only region with a telemetry subscriber base listed in this section. By subtracting the telemetry figure from MTN’s postpaid subscriber numbers, we can find the company’s actual contract subscriber numbers in South Africa. It turns out that MTN has more telemetry subscribers on its network than standard postpaid customers, and the former has been growing while that latter has been shrinking. We listed the telemetry and postpaid subscriber numbers for MTN South Africa for both the year ended 31 December 2018 and the six months ended 30 June 2019, as these figures will be important when inspecting MTN’s growth claims. Below are the postpaid and telemetry subscriber figures for MTN South Africa, along with screenshots from MTN’s results presentation: These figures reflect an increase of 300,000 telemetry subscribers and a decrease of 200,000 non-telemetry postpaid subscribers over the first six months of 2019. Due to the way MTN reflects its postpaid subscribers in its financial reporting (by combining telemetry devices and human customers), the company can claim an increase in postpaid consumer business – despite 200,000 standard postpaid customers leaving the network in the last six months. Speaking in an interview with Business Day about MTN’s South African business, MTN Group CEO Rob Shuter stated the following: “We are seeing growth in the consumer postpaid business. There is no reason why we cannot also compete more effectively in time in prepaid.” The growth Shuter is referring to here can be attributed entirely to an increased number of telemetry devices being signed up to the company’s network, although it would be fair of anyone unaware of MTN’s reporting practices to assume that more standard contract customers were signing up to MTN. While the growth in telemetry subscribers is no doubt beneficial to MTN South Africa, the revenue generated by these SIMs is nowhere near the income earned from contract customers. This reporting practice seems unique to MTN’s South Africa division, as there are no separate telemetry figures for other regions in its financial reports, and competitors such as Vodacom do not include telemetry customers in their postpaid figures. MyBroadband asked MTN South Africa for comment on its postpaid subscriber reporting practices. MTN South Africa initially responded by stating that the figures cited by MyBroadband were incorrect, supplying us with the following statement: “We see the most uptake of our telemetry offerings in the transportation industry primarily in the fleet, tracking and utilities markets which make up over 70% of this base. We have seen a positive uptake in these services due to our value offering to this market and we are confident that this will continue. As a point of correction, our non-telemetry customer subscriber base has increased by 16,000 for the six months ending June 2019.” When asked for the correct postpaid subscriber figures, MTN apologised for the confusion and confirmed that the figures cited by MyBroadband were correct. The MTN Group Investor Relations supplied the following feedback: “MTN’s interim results for the period ended 30 June 2019 reflected 5.9 million postpaid customers in South Africa, comprising 3.2 million telemetry subscribers and 2.7 million standard postpaid subscribers. MTN’s results for the year ended 31 December 2018, the company had 5.8 million postpaid customers in South Africa, comprising 2.9 million telemetry subscribers and 2.9 million standard postpaid customers.” MTN SA executive for corporate affairs Jacqui O’Sullivan told MyBroadband that the company provides ARPUs excluding telemetry. “The ARPU for telemetry subscribers is R153 for Q1 2019,” O’Sullivan said. “We have seen a slight decrease in non-telemetry postpaid on the back of stricter vetting rules targeting a reduction in credit risk due to tougher economic times,” she added. O’Sullivan added that MTN SA’s consumer postpaid subscribers include a “small element” of consumer-held telemetry subscribers. “Consumer postpaid revenue grew by 7% for H1 2019,” she said. “Consumer postpaid subscriber net additions were muted on the back of stricter vetting rules targeting a reduction in credit risk due to tougher economic times.”