Motorists in Durban have not had to pay traffic fines for the past two years due to an ongoing spat between eThekwini Municipality and the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA). The Sunday Times reports that a deal between eThekwini and Traffic Management Technologies (TMT) was flagged and paused by the NPA, who cited irregularities in the deal. The proposed deal used a system where the municipality would have paid TMT R28.50 per fine issued. However, the NPA says that the law requires payment to private service providers not to be based on commission or a percentage-based figure. TMT attorney Andre Pepler argues that the system is not based on either of the above, but instead on a fixed, flat rate. He also claims that TMT uses the same system to support 23 other municipalities without issues. Acting KwaZulu-Natal DPP Elaine Zungu said that the deal has also been halted because eThekwini had compliance issues to deal with regarding the deal. “The DPP’s stance that failure on the part of Durban metro to furnish her with the relevant data entitles her to withdraw the authority cannot be faulted,” said the acting DPP. Zungu claims that eThekwini could run its own speed camera system in the interim. “There are municipalities who manage all of their own manual and camera law enforcement,” she said. This is not the first speeding fine-related controversy involving the NPA in recent months. Previous reports have claimed that the NPA in the Free State was withdrawing all criminal speeding cases which relied on evidence provided by the ProLaser 4 speed gun. This potentially has major ramifications for the entire country, with all cases involving the ProLaser 4 speed gun now possibly compromised. MyBroadband readers have also reported being charged fines at times and locations that do not correlate with their own movements. While many legitimate fines are incurred on South African roads, it is worth checking the details of your speeding fine to ensure that it is in fact legitimate.