Samsung has revealed its new Galaxy Note 10 and Note 10+ smartphones, each of which offer premium features and powerful hardware. Samsung Note users are fans of big displays, powerful hardware, and great S-Pen functionality, and the new Galaxy Note 10 and Note 10+ deliver these features along with so much more. The Galaxy Note 10+ boasts a stunning 6.8-inch Super AMOLED display with HDR support and a resolution of 3,040 x 1,440. While the Galaxy Note 10+ caters to those who prefer a large display, the more compact Note 10 offers the same premium design and powerful hardware in a smaller package, featuring a 6.3-inch Super AMOLED display. Both of these models include all the features which Note fans love, along with enhanced functionality and exciting new hardware which enables new applications and unprecedented performance. The Samsung Galaxy Note 10 and Note 10+ include all the hardware features users would expect from a top-of-the-range smartphone. From IP68 water and dust protection, to high-capacity batteries, to blazingly-fast Exynos 9825 Octa, the Galaxy Note 10 models are a dream smartphone for any hardware enthusiast. The Galaxy Note 10+ also boasts fast charging up to 45W, which can deliver an all-day battery charge in just 30 minutes. This device also features a quad-lens rear camera which enables in-depth augmented reality features and applications such as 3D object scanning, in addition to taking accurate, high-quality pictures and video at resolutions of up to 4K. The Samsung Galaxy Note 10 and Note 10+ both sport a bezel-less Infinity-O display design, with a small but powerful 10MP front-facing camera placed at the top of the screen. Both models also have a new, slimmer design with a curved screen, which makes the Note 10 far more comfortable to hold. Below are the specifications of the Galaxy Note 10 and Note 10+ models available in South Africa. The Samsung Galaxy Note 10’s hardware and design make it the ultimate smartphone for high-end users, but it is the S-Pen which makes the device truly unique. With last year’s Galaxy Note 9, Samsung introduced the ability to remotely control smartphone functions using a button on its Bluetooth-connected S-Pen. The Galaxy Note 10’s S-Pen takes this one step further, allowing users to control smartphone navigation and application features by simply gesturing with the stylus. This makes it easy to remotely control everything from video playback through streaming applications to presentations displayed through the device’s overhauled DeX platform. Samsung has also overhauled the S-Pen note-taking experience, allowing users to write complete sentences and paragraphs within the Notes application before converting the entire body of text to standard formats afterwards. This allows creative users to write freely, uninterrupted by per-word conversions to printed text, and change their work to a more smartphone-friendly format at will. Samsung’s Galaxy Note 10 combines the most powerful hardware ever included in a Samsung smartphone with exciting new S-Pen features to deliver a handset which stands out from any other device on the market. The Galaxy Note 10 and Note 10+ are priced at R18,999 and R22,999 respectively, and are available for pre-order from the Samsung South Africa website. Both Galaxy Note 10 models are available in Aura White, Aura Black, and Aura Glow colours, and customers who pre-order the device now will receive a limited launch gift valued at R3,500. This Limited Launch Gift comprises a Samsung Galaxy Fit wearable and 24 months of Samsung Care+. The Samsung Galaxy Note 10 Limited Launch Gift promotion will run until 30 September 2019, or while stocks last. This article was published in partnership with Samsung.