As digital technology uptake continues to increase, it has become of critical operational importance that contact centres evolve and expand their customer engagement channels. However, running these ever-evolving technologies can prove to be a difficult task, which has necessitated the development of a streamlined solution that simplifies the contact centre model. The cloud has been effective at achieving this by offering flexible and efficient resource management. However, most cloud solutions are designed for larger businesses and enterprises – neglecting SMEs who have very specific needs. As a result, SMEs often end up paying for unnecessary features. Leading customer engagement company Pivotal Data has developed a solution to this issue – an on-demand contact centre solution that only charges businesses for what they use, when they use it. With Pivotal on Demand, the cost is calculated on a per agent, per day, and per functionality basis, and billing is calculated using an automated daily usage report. Pivotal on Demand is therefore an ideal solution for SMEs as they only have to pay for the features that they require and use. There is no upfront or defined term involved in signing up to Pivotal on Demand, and once the solution has been implemented, you will have access to a complete and operation-ready inbound, outbound or blended contact centre within a few days. Due to Pivotal on Demand’s multi-tenant cloud deployment methodology, it is also a simple process to scale up or down as demand dictates – making spikes in customer interactions over holiday or other seasonal periods simple and cost effective to manage. Pivotal on Demand enables agents to engage with customers through multiple channels including voice, email, chat, SMS, WhatsApp and various social media platforms. Agents can access the communications platform through a local browser, and the solution can easily be integrated with leading CRM and Helpdesk Ticketing systems such as Zendesk, Salesforce, Oracle, and Freshdesk. Visit our website at www.pivotaldata.co.za. This article was published in partnership with Pivotal.