As the tech industry continues to grow in South Africa, one of the most important focuses is ensuring equal representation in the workplace. As it stands, women are underrepresented in high powered positions in the tech field, and Standard Bank has therefore taken matters upon itself to empower South African women to have their voices heard in the field of tech. Standard Bank, in partnership with the Department of Telecommunications and Postal Services,will be giving R300,000 to one talented woman with an outstanding tech solution at its upcoming Women in ICT event, which will take place on 23 August in Johannesburg. Alongside this generous funding, the winner will also have access to a variety of other benefits, including: To put yourself forward for this incredible opportunity, all you need to do is record a two-minute video of yourself discussing your tech, and how it can benefit the community. The five best pitches will make a shortlist, and each of these women will be invited to present at the Women in ICT event. While only one of these five women will walk away as the winner, the experience of presenting at this prestigious event is incredibly valuable to all five of these women, and could provide them with the opportunity to network with important players in the industry. To learn more about this incredible opportunity, click here. This fantastic opportunity is just one aspect of the illustrious Women in ICT event, which is being hosted by Standard Bank and will take place on 23 August in Johannesburg. The event will offer highly valuable insight into how women are doing great things in the ICT sector in South Africa. The keynote address will be delivered by Deputy Minister Telecommunications and Postal Services, Pinky Kekana. Applications must be submitted by 9 August, and successful applicants will be notified on 16 August. RSVP now to apply for a seat at the illustrious Women in ICT event. Standard Bank, in partnership with the Department of Telecommunications and Postal Services, has also opened entries to its Industry 4.0 Challenge. This challenge offers selected technology entrepreneurs a chance to showcase their ideas to a decorated group of venture capitalists, private equity firms, industry experts, and senior executives. This challenge offers valuable exposure – on both a national and international level – while the 5 winners will even get the opportunity to travel to the ITU Telecom World 2019 exhibition in Budapest in September to promote their idea further. Additionally, there will be a great opportunity to network with buyers and investors, and potentially find partners to take your business idea to the next level. To take up this incredible opportunity, simply click here. This article was published in partnership with Standard Bank.