The success of any function depends greatly on the choice of venue, as the service offered by the venue will directly impact the quality of the event. For this reason, it’s imperative that entities hosting any kind of event must consider certain key services, resources, and amenities that event venues should offer. Such services and amenities to consider include parking available for guests, whether they offer a generator for backup power, security, and of course their menu options. A multi-purpose venue with different room and setup options is the ideal choice, as it caters to any size function that event organisers may need to host. A great venue choice is Gallagher Convention Centre – a multi-purpose event venue that prides themselves on their vast experience with hosting all sorts of conferences, meetings and events. Gallagher Convention Centre offers the following services, resources, and amenities: Gallagher offers exceptional service through a dedicated team who are experts in their respective fields – with a collective industry experience of 380+ years. The experienced Gallagher team is committed to ensuring that the requirements of event organisers are met and that their expectations are exceeded. The Gallagher team becomes a part of the client’s team to ensure the success of the events that take place at Gallagher Convention Centre. Gallagher is committed to reinvesting in their facilities. The 32-hectare property offers 27 venues which cater to almost any event requirement – such as conferences exhibitions, dinners, luncheons, cocktails, and private events – making it the perfect place to host your dream event. Despite our extensive standard menu options, the Executive Chef Gordon Fraser thrives on customizing menus specific to client’s events. Gallagher Convention Centre is also a Halaal certified venue. This means that you will not face a surcharge on Halaal meals, and you can enjoy peace of mind that your special dietary needs have been looked after. Gallagher offers affordable rates and is conscious of client’s budgets. To best assist event organisers, Gallagher offers a single-call solution where organisers can secure pre-qualified suppliers without having to look any further. Suppliers in Gallagher’s pre-qualified network are held to the highest standard, in line with the quality that their clients are accustomed to receiving from Gallagher Convention Centre. Gallagher also has a full generator backup system for the entire property, as they understand how important it is to have the lights on while hosting an event. You can also reserve one of their boardrooms for your team to work from should you face a blackout at your own premises. Gallagher offers a backup water tank that can sustain the property for three days. Gallagher Convention Centre is a five-star graded property, which means you get to experience 5-star service at affordable rates. Gallagher offers street level loading bays. You can save on loading time and man-power as you do not have to deal with goods lifts. They can accommodate any type of event. Gallagher provides a blank canvas and all the services you need to have “Your event, your way” in any one of their 27 multi-purpose venues. For more information, or to book your next conference, visit the Gallagher website. You can also contact them on +27 11 266 3000 or via email: gallagher@gallagher.co.za. This article was published in partnership with Gallagher Convention Centre,.