We all know the drill. After a year of using a new phone we finally stumble upon a hidden gem feature that makes our mobile life so much easier. But then we get a new device, and we’re back to square one – back to having to stumble on these functions accidentally, or have a friend reveal our tech inadequacies. With the recent release of its new Huawei Y9 Prime 2019, Huawei thought now was a good time to share six cool tips and tricks that will help users get even more enjoyment out of this new device, which boasts SA’s first smartphone pop-up camera. Are you tired of having to take multiple screenshots of a lengthy Whatsapp conversation to show your friends the full drama of a fight with your man? Well, Huawei has the solution. The Huawei Y9 Prime 2019 allows you to record your screen activity, and even an entire conversation – thereby creating a whole cinematic viewing experience for your friends. Be sure to tell them to grab the popcorn beforehand! To start the screen-recording function, just tap on the shortcut and follow the instructions on the screen. With any device that you own, there will always be some level of personal information that needs to be kept private. The Huawei Y9 Prime 2019 has a feature that greatly mitigates confidentiality risks; you are able to lock certain apps you want to keep private by simply using your fingerprint. The first step is to register your fingerprint: Settings – Security & privacy – Fingerprint ID. Once you’ve completed this step, head over to your Settings – Security and privacy – App Lock and then select which apps you would like to restrict. As part of the EMUI 9.0 system, The Huawei Y9 Prime 2019 supports gesture-based navigation, which allows for an overall smooth and effortless user experience. To activate the gesture navigation: Settings – System – System navigation and choose Gestures The traditional way take a screenshot on any Android device would be to press the power key and volume key simultaneously. However, the Huawei Y9 Prime 2019 has a much less fiddly solution – simply swipe three fingers across the screen. To activate this feature: Settings – Smart assistance – Motion control – Three-finger screenshot. The Huawei Y9 Prime 2019’s App Twin feature is perfect for people who like to keep their personal and professional social media accounts separate. Instead of constantly having to log out of one account and into another, this function allows you to seamlessly move between apps and accounts on one device. The feature works by creating a separate icon for each account logged into. To initiate this multi-tasking assistant go to Settings – Apps & Notifications – App Twin and choose the apps available that you want to clone. Is that movie, YouTube video or Netflix series taking a tad too long to load? Are you wondering what the issue might be? The Huawei Y9 Prime 2019 has a simple solution not offered by many phones – I allows you to view your network speed in real time. Once activated, you’re able to see the speed of both your mobile data and WiFi networks. This is very handy as you can see at a glance whether the lag in download times is because of your service provider’s network speed or your WiFi network and switch over accordingly. To activate it, go to Settings – Display – More display settings and enable Display network speed This article was published in partnership with Huawei.