Cell C is discontinuing its fixed-LTE services through Internet Solutions, shutting down the product’s availability to other ISPs. This follows the company’s recent downgrade to “default” by S&P Global and the extension of its roaming agreement with MTN to help improve its financial position. The network’s fixed-LTE product was offered to ISPs through Internet Solutions (IS), and was sold by the likes of Axxess, RSAWEB, and Afrihost. There are a number of local ISPs who have already stopped offering fixed-LTE products on Cell C’s network, including Webafrica – which sold Cell C fixed-LTE packages as recently as June 2019. Internet Solutions confirmed to MyBroadband that it received a notification from Cell C about terminating its fixed-LTE services. “We can confirm that we have received a formal notification from Cell C terminating its fixed-LTE services to us – affecting our reseller partners and their respective end-users – as it is no longer sustainable for Cell C to support the demand that fixed-LTE has placed on its network,” the company said. “We are working tirelessly with alternative network providers to secure comparable fixed-LTE services with the aim of successfully onboarding a new operator that will allow us to continue providing these services to clients.” “We have been in direct communication with our clients advising them of the particular details of when these changes will become effective,” IS said. Cell C told MyBroadband that it had exited from the wholesale fixed-LTE sector. “We are reviewing our product portfolio, and as part of this review, have taken the decision to exit from wholesale fixed-LTE as it is no longer feasible,” Cell C said. “We will continue to develop and introduce competitive products and services to the market.” The termination notice follows Cell C fixed-LTE customers reporting a number of problems with traffic throughput, with many users complaining of heavy shaping and throttling on the network. Customers on the MyBroadband forum have said they were struggling to watch YouTube and Netflix, with speeds of below 1Mbps. It is unclear whether these performance issues are related to congestion on the network or to the pending discontinuation of the fixed-LTE service. Another operator which recently stopped offering its fixed-LTE service was Rain, announcing in July 2018 that it would suspend the sale of fixed-LTE products through partner ISPs. Rain said its fixed-LTE service was suspended “to ensure a continued great experience for all our customers”.