Users with Frogfoot fibre packages across multiple Internet Service Providers (ISPs) have reported problems with their fibre connections. These subscribers have been reporting issues with high latencies, increased packet loss, and lower speeds than what they are paying for. According to complaints on social media and the MyBroadband forum, customers were told by multiple ISPs that the problem was due to an issue with Frogfoot’s network. This was also confirmed by Frogfoot representatives on the MyBroadband forum and social media platforms. Many users reported that they were getting download and upload speeds far lower than what they were paying for, with others stating that they were experiencing higher latencies in conjunction with this issue. High packet loss was another common complaint across the network’s coverage zones, with customers filing support tickets through their various ISPs which would then be passed on to Frogfoot itself. These reports have flooded in over the last week, with many users complaining of slow speeds persisting for days at a time. Some users on the MyBroadband forum reported their line speed dropping from 100Mbps to 15Mbps in some cases, or from 500Mbps to 152Mbps in others. Shortly after these reports began appearing, Frogfoot issued statements on social media addressing the problems. “We are aware of the slow speed issues that are occurring, and we have had our senior teams actively investigating these reports,” the company said. “We will keep ISP’s and customers informed of any updates regarding this and we assure you that we are working on the issue to resolve this as soon as possible.” “We apologise for the inconveniences caused,” Frogfoot said. At the time of writing, a number of ISPs have posted announcements warning subscribers of the problems at the FNO, and it is unclear whether the issues have been resolved. Frogfoot released another update on 26 August stating the following: “An update on the current speed issue – Our Core Engineers are currently investigating and implementing a solution. We will keep customers updated as we progress.” Some customers have commented on social media stating that their connections have improved, while others are still experiencing problems. MyBroadband reached out to Frogfoot for comment, but the company did not respond by the time of publication.