The Huawei Developer Conference (HDC) 2019, which took place in Dongguan, China from 9-11 August, featured a number of key announcements such as the company now boasting over 100 million users outside of China. In addition, an updated developer engagement programme named ‘Shining-Star’, which offers open capabilities for development and testing, was launched along with Huawei DigiX Labs. Huawei also announced the global launch of HMS-Core, which provides 14 kits to over than 910k global developers. Finally, a new content partnership for Huawei Video has been introduced. “Intelligent connections are the future. Huawei Mobile Services provides a global platform, connecting more than 910,000 global developers and 100 million users outside of China”, said Jervis Su, Vice President of Mobile Services, Huawei Consumer Business Group. “These connections make a real difference. With the Huawei Mobile Services portfolio, we have been able to show that there is real demand for a more intelligent solution. We are very proud to be able to announce a number of milestone successes for our portfolio.” These milestone successes for the first half of 2019 include: In keeping with the momentum of these results, Huawei announced a new developer engagement program, dubbed ‘Shining-Star’. The project has invested $1 billion worth of resources to provide comprehensive support for developers and create a smart mobile service innovation ecosystem, helping partners to create digital innovation in a complete scenario and encouraging developers to access Huawei’s open capabilities and services – all while promoting developers’ services in the marketing segment. “Our ‘Shining-Star’ program is just one of many ways that Huawei is furthering innovation across the board,” said Alex Zhang, President of Mobile Services, Huawei Consumer Business Group. “We feel that many excellent and innovative ideas are lacking the means to show their true luster. With the new initiative, we hope to transform these specks of light to truly shining-stars. Huawei is determined to help developers reach their true potential. ‘Shining-Star’ program will complement our new Huawei DigiX Labs.” The new Huawei DigiX Labs are going to open in 6 regions in 2019, with the first one launching in Dusseldorf, Germany. In these labs, developers and partners from across the world can test their service remotely, and will have access to all the resources they need to develop the apps and services of the future. The labs are equipped with AR, VR, AI, CameraKit, Ability Gallery, HMScore and other open technological capabilities and offer a truly open space for innovative work. The introduction of the HMS–core, a collection of Huawei developer kits, supports and augments functionality across devices. These kits work together seamlessly to ensure that Huawei devices provide a great user experience right out of the box. The global launch of HMS-core fits with the current trend of full-scenario intelligent connectivity. This motivates Huawei to continue boosting innovation and bringing open-capability to developers. To engage with more partners and boost the partnership ecosystem, Huawei has partnered with the best content providers in the world to offer a unique viewing experience to their users. At the Huawei Developer conference, the company signed a new cooperation agreement with Filmin, which will bring their streaming catalogue to Huawei users in Spain. Filmin boasts over 9,000 movies, 248 TV series, and 400 broadcast partners that guarantee that users never go without entertainment. With over 400 collections and thematic channels, users can discover new content with recommendations based on moods or tags.