New IS CEO Setumo Mohapi and Dimension Data have dismissed allegations of corruption and collusion during Mohapi’s tenure as SITA CEO. The allegations came from a SITA employee, Beare R. Ramlal, who was suspended by Mohapi in August 2018. According to Ramlal, Mohapi and Dimension Data colluded to provide network and service management services to the Department of Home Affairs. This, Ramlal said, included an “unsolicited proposal to SITA to take over the management of DHA network services for an additional amount of R30,000,000”. Ramlal asked the Zondo Commission and the Department of Public Enterprises to investigate the relationship between Mohapi and Dimension Data while he was at SITA. Dimension Data CEO Grant Bodley told MyBroadband that the contracts awarded to Dimension Data by SITA were lawful in all respects. “These contracts were awarded pursuant to Dimension Data’s participation in open and competitive bid processes,” said Bodley. He added that Dimension Data conducts its business in terms of its Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, as well as its Anti Bribery and Anti-Corruption policies. Bodley also defended the appointment of Mohapi as IS CEO, saying he has extensive experience in the ICT sector and is highly regarded in the market. “We are pleased to have him as the Managing Executive of Internet Solutions and as a member of the Dimension Data executive team,” said Bodley. Mohapi told MyBroadband that he is aware of the allegations made against him by Ramlal and denies the accusation that he engaged in wrongdoing during his tenure as SITA CEO. “The baseless allegations have been made by a disgruntled SITA employee against whom I personally initiated serious charges in a disciplinary action instituted against him in terms of SITA’s human resources policies. I was also one of many witnesses in this disciplinary process,” Mohapi said. “I take the allegations very seriously and reserve my rights to address them in an appropriate forum.” “All of the actions undertaken by me in my tenure at SITA are fully auditable and SITA can be contacted for confirmation.”