The Fourth Industrial Revolution is upon us, which means businesses and their workforces must be prepared and willing to adapt and change to ensure they are not left behind. This revolution describes the blurring of boundaries between physical, digital and biological worlds. However, in order to do this, education systems must also be forward-looking and find ways to improve collaboration in order to yield candidates that are Fourth-Industrial-Revolution-ready. Technological drivers are increasingly challenging the nature of jobs as we know them and creating a greater demand for certain skills in the workplace. The Open Window School of Creative technologies is stepping up to this challenge! The Open Window School of Creative Technologies houses three key subjects: Interaction Design, Interactive Development and Three-Dimensional Design. Interaction Design focuses on creating pleasant user experiences and user interfaces for digital products. Interactive Development focuses on developing the functionality of these digital products through an in-depth focus on front-end development and back-end development languages. Lastly, Three-Dimensional Design explores the production and creation of tangible products and objects with a focus on form and spatial problem-solving These three subjects, whilst different in focus, are all bound by the philosophy and process of human-centered design. This means that the focus of the design process falls squarely on meeting the needs of the end user through research, enquiry and action. In addition, all these disciplines are augmented and empowered through the use and application of cutting-edge technology and innovation. To address the need for collaborative thinking in the Fourth Industrial Revolution, Open Window’s School of Creative Technologies hosts an exciting annual Hackathon. The Hackathon is an event where students engage in a collaborative project involving design and programming to create a technologically innovative and engagingly interactive product. The students in each discipline are grouped, issued with a brief, and collectively spend a day to execute the creative brief. In addition, teams compete to create the best project for prizes. The aim of the Hackathon is to bring the various skills and disciplines housed within the School together whilst promoting technological innovation and design thinking. This year, the theme of the Hackathon was “Alternative Worlds”. Each team of students were provided with a unique alien planet and set of linguistic prompts. From there, the teams had to conceptualise a short narrative and interactive product based on the creative prompts provided. To get a feel for what transpired during the Hack, see the video here. Prospective students interested in creating, inventing and exploring with Open Window can attend their Open Day on Saturday, 7 September from 9:00 to 14:00, where they will provide more information regarding their inventive, imaginative, and innovative studies. There will also be informative presentation sessions on all the above topics from 11:00 to 13:00. Make sure not to miss out. To get a feel of what happens at the Open Window Open Day and the kinds of subject activations and displays on show, take a look at this video. Join the event here. This article was published in partnership with Open Window.