The SABC is facing major problems that have culminated in worries over whether it would be able to continue broadcasting. While the SABC now looks unlikely to face a complete blackout in the near future, it has been forced to stop broadcasting all PSL matches because it can not afford to pay SuperSport for the rights to local football games. The SABC would only have been capable of earning R9.8 million per year from these rights, whereas the rights cost R280 million over 5 years – rendering the agreement nonviable. The PSL said that South Africans may have to “accept that the SABC is incapable of meeting its requirements” when it comes to broadcasting the popular soccer league. However, the SABC’s inability to broadcast the PSL is only the tip of the iceberg. Much bigger problems face the cash-strapped state-owned enterprise, which requires additional funding from the government to guarantee its continued operation. This has resulted in tension between the SABC and Minister of Communications Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams, who has questioned the viability of the SABC’s turnaround strategy. As a result, she has attempted to avoid providing the broadcaster with funding. “Treasury said this turnaround strategy that was presented by the SABC does not meet our funding requirements and as the ministry, we had serious concerns ourselves and we said we have to contact external support, which is why we contacted GTAC,” said Ndabeni-Abrahams. Ndabeni-Abrahams also said that the SABC’s strategy needs to ensure that it will not need further bailouts a few years down the line. However, DA member Phumzile van Damme and other sources claimed that Ndabeni-Abrahams has a personal vendetta against the SABC which is clouding her judgement on the matter. “Apparently the minister regularly trashes [the SABC board and executive] in her department and to other organisations,” one source told the City Press. Former acting COO of the SABC, Craig van Rooyen, also disagreed with the minister, claiming that since the SABC board had approved the strategy, Treasury’s approval was not needed. Finance minister Tito Mboweni confirmed that the SABC is receiving temporary relief from Parliament, but did not clarify the amount of money that is being allocated. “We really and truly cannot carry on like this,” said Mboweni, adding that government was not going to provide the SABC with a blank cheque to solve its issues. Problems with leadership have also plagued the public broadcaster. Both of the SABC COOs who preceded van Rooyen were dismissed for their conduct. Hlaudi Motsoeneng was dismissed in June 2017 for  “bringing the SABC into disrepute and causing irreparable damage to his employer”. Recent reports about the highly controversial Motsoeneng paint a terrible picture of his reign in charge of the public broadcaster, including regular threats and attacks on employees while he ran the newsroom. A recent investigation revealed several instances of the misuse of authority and power by Motsoeneng and his enforcers, said the City Press, including threats towards SABC journalists of termination for not running certain press releases. The investigation also showed examples of TV crews being bullied into providing coverage for traditional leaders who were friends of Motsoeneng, as well as various ANC youth and women’s leagues. Motsoeneng was replaced by Chris Maroleng, but Maroleng was fired in April 2019 for “breaching his fiduciary duties as well as negligence”. Van Rooyen, who has since been acting COO of the SABC, recently stepped down from the position, citing “personal reasons”. According to a report published in the Sunday Times, the SABC must take action against those who have caused the SABC’s collapse if it hopes to receive funding from the National Treasury moving forward. Those who would be affected by such action are likely to include Motsoeneng and former communications minister Faith Muthambi – both of whom could be liable for criminal and civil charges. “The SABC must investigate the financial meltdown, and report on progress in holding to account people implicated in previous investigations into corruption and mismanagement,” the report said. On multiple occasions, the SABC has said that it needs a loan guarantee from the government to ensure that it remains sustainable, with the alternative being a possible “Day Zero” event, where it would have to shut down all broadcasting.