RSAWEB recently partnered with MyBroadband to provide insight into cloud computing. Sean Rose, RSAWEB’s Cloud Product Manager, answered questions from MyBroadband readers about the cloud – facilitating an excellent discussion. The questions and answers covered cybersecurity, connectivity, cloud partnerships, and more. Three MyBroadband readers also received an Amazon Echo Dot, courtesy of RSAWEB, for asking the best questions. Several of the best questions from the discussion are posted below. Do you see any hesitation from businesses/corporations to move their services to the cloud from on-prem due to various security breaches that have happened, and how do you intend on reassuring your customers that their data is secure and safe from vulnerabilities? Cyber Security is a major concern for any business. Reducing your environment vulnerability to security breaches should be a top priority. RSAWEB provides consulting and engineering services in respect of solution architecture to help identify design, policy, and protocol vulnerabilities; we also partner with industry recognised security vendors like Fortinet and Cloudflare to enable our customers to bolster their environment security. Our engagement ethos is collaborative and we spend time with our customers understanding their technology use cases, this helps us to leverage the engineering skills we have internally as well as our vendor ecosystem to achieve their specific compliance and security requirements and objectives. What is the biggest barrier for entry to the Cloud for customers who still have the traditional on-premise model? In my experience, barriers to entry vary depending on the business. There are a number of factors that determine whether the adoption of cloud services are going to be painless or not. Assuming connectivity is not an issue; migration to cloud is a strategic move and not necessarily a cost saving exercise. Planning is key, and in the planning it is often determined that a skilled partner is required to help navigate the journey. Cloud computing environments offer up the opportunity of enhancing user experience, improving application performance, providing the ability to scale without impacting production. How do you foresee solving latency issues in time sensitive applications where info should be sent in real time to the cloud? If latency becomes larger than say 200ms, granularity is lost (in our application – this relates to using timestamping for trilateration). Hi, This question is, I think, very relevant. Internet latency plays a huge role in user experience, application performance, and viability. RSAWEB presents our Virtual Data Centre public cloud (Infrastructure as a Service) offering out of two data centres (Cape Town and Johannesburg), this allows our customers to enjoy low latency responses, as does other local cloud service providers with data centres in SA. Services hosted offshore will incur high latency and perhaps those applications would be better hosted locally. Traditional CAPEX models work out cheaper over a few years vs the Cloud OPEX subscription. From a financial perspective, how would you demonstrate/articulate savings or cost reductions by offsetting it as OPEX? This question is often discussed. I don’t believe that Total Cost of Ownership is always calculated to include many of the “soft costs” which are incurred operationally, this often skews the perceived cost of on premise/self managed infrastructure. Space, power, cooling, software licences, IT labour, maintenance, insurances, etc – these are some of the additional costs associated with infrastructure ownership. The adoption of cloud services over physical on premise infrastructure can potentially be more cost-efficient over time however, the strategic benefits and access to technology (available within cloud platforms/environments) may be more where the focus of the business case should be – it all depends on what the core objectives are. How is RSAWEB managing their cloud push to clients who are now seeing the entry of hypercloud providers like AWS and Azure into the market? Is it becoming tougher to compete and stave off interest in those providers, or are you seeing synergy between what you can provide, what they can provide, and combining that to address what the client wants. We have been indirect Microsoft partners through our distribution channel for a long time, we have also partnered with AWS and have certified some of our engineers. By doing so, we have positioned ourselves as a solution provider and partner to our customers and this gives us the options to provide solutions that cater for varying technical needs (whether managed or unmanaged). RSAWEB provides infrastructure as a service (vmware) locally and access to AWS and Azure – a multi-cloud solution offering.