In order to grab the attention of customers, businesses in all industries are undergoing a digital transformation to create innovative solutions. Hybrid IT is therefore a necessity to ensure internal end-users get started in search of the next big idea. No matter where you are on your business/customer journey, implementing and managing hybrid IT is complex. The world of Hybrid IT can be complex and full of friction – both on-premises and across clouds. In addition, operational issues slow down IT and can hold businesses back, preventing IT from delivering speed and agility, causing it to become a monster. First Technology is geared towards providing a total Information Technology Solution to businesses around the country. Their vast range of specialised and strategic technology solutions ensure business productivity is maximised, with minimal risk. First Technology is a proud reseller of Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE) software-defined and cloud solutions with expertise to reduce operational friction, bringing a cloud-like solution across your entire infrastructure. With software-enabled automation and simplified hybrid cloud management to streamline and speed operations, First Technology and HPE empower IT to accelerate business. HPE guarantees 4.5 times better application performance than traditional IT with HPE SimpliVity. This hyperconverged platform virtualises, speeds up and protects your data. It also has the guaranteed capability to restore and backup a 1TB VM in less than 60 seconds. Manage and deploy IT resources quickly and for any workload with HPE Synergy. This composable software-defined infrastructure deploys your IT at a cloud-like scale and speed. It also allows your apps to become faster and smarter. By automating daily operations and providing faster delivery of compute, your daily processes are made simpler. Simplify and automate your IT operations with HPE OneView by transforming to software-defined infrastructure. You get faster IT deployment, faster storage deployment and  less downtime, making your business processes efficient. You can also run Azure services on premises for yourself or clients with HPE ProLiant for Microsoft Azure Stack, which integrates Microsoft Azure with hybrid cloud for your compute, storage and networking needs. First Technology strives to deliver optimum customer service and IT solutions countrywide. In order to fulfil this, First Technology maintains one of the largest teams of skilled technical resources in the country. These professionals are supplemented by vast internal resources and partnerships with top IT vendors, such as HPE. First Technology aims to maintain a nationwide reach with 11 branches conveniently located around city centres. This allows First Technology the opportunity to service customers across the country with ample resources and expertise within each province. For more information, visit http://firsttechnology-itmonster.co.za/. This article was published in partnership with First Technology.