The Samsung Galaxy S10 range of smartphones launched in South Africa at the start of March, offering a bevy of new features over the Galaxy S9, including big advancements to the cameras. When Samsung first announced its new flagship smartphone range in February, it achieved first place with the Galaxy S10+ on the DxOMark Selfie scale, a new ranking system to evaluate the image quality of smartphone front cameras. The Galaxy S10+ achieved a score of 96 and took first place on the DxOMark Selfie scale thanks to its twin front camera system. Behind the first lens is a 10 megapixel (MP) Dual Pixel camera, while the second is a RGB Depth camera. This allows the Galaxy S10+’s front camera to support bokeh effects, and shoot video and photos in resolutions of up to ultra-high definition. In addition to its best-in-class front facing camera, the Samsung Galaxy S10 also features an excellent set of rear cameras with three lenses offering various levels of zoom and viewing angles: The telephoto lens offers 2x optical zoom, while the standard wide-angle lens includes Samsung’s dual aperture system. It can switch between f/1.5 and f/2.4 to take better shots in low light. Both the telephoto and wide-angle cameras feature optical image stabilisation. Aside from offering a wider field of view, the ultra-wide lens also enables ultra-wide panorama shots — wider, taller panoramas with greater perspective. It shoots a larger scene in a single frame, horizontally and vertically, so even if you move less it captures more. While both the rear and front cameras offer video recording in up to ultra-high definition resolutions, the Galaxy S10’s rear camera also offers Super Steady recording with digital stabilisation technology. This smooths out video when recording activities such as a bike ride, or while dancing at a concert. The Galaxy S10’s rear camera also offers the ability to record in HDR10+. Using the built in neural processing unit, Samsung is able to offer features such as Scene Optimiser and Shot Suggestion on the Galaxy S10. Scene Optimiser is able to detect 30 different scenes and optimise the camera’s settings accordingly. The modes available are: Face, Baby, Person, Dog, Cat, Food, People, Beaches, Sky, Mountain, Sunset, Sunrise, City, Snow, Waterfall, Watersides, Scenery, Stage, Vehicles, Drinks, Flowers, Trees, Greenery, Animal, Shoes, Backlit, Indoor, Text, Clothes, and Night View. Shot Suggestion offers automatic composition recommendations to help you better frame your photos. It pulls from the rules of photography used by professionals and a machine learning algorithm trained on the analysis of over 100 million high-quality photos. As always, in addition to all of the new advanced features of the cameras on the smartphones in the Galaxy S10 range, Samsung also offers a Pro Mode. This gives full control over the settings of the camera for professionals. Watch the MyBroadband review of the Samsung Galaxy S10’s camera below. <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> This article was published in partnership with Samsung.