Business-grade WiFi is a critical business component and key functionality of employee productivity. Consumer-grade wireless can’t keep up with business-critical voice, video and cloud applications while business-grade WiFi on the other hand, often requires technical support. Axiz offers solutions that are suitable for your small business WiFi needs. Axiz is an industry leading information technology value-added distributor focused on solutions ranging from Edge Client Devices, Core Data Centre hardware and software to Cloud software and services. By partnering with Aruba, a Hewlett Packard Enterprise company, Axiz offers the HPE OfficeConnect OC20 Access Point device. This device can be set up in less than two minutes and provides blitz-fast, reliable WiFi for employees, guests and applications. In addition, there is an intuitive mobile application that enables you to easily set up and monitor your network – all from the convenience of your smartphone. To set up your WiFi, all you have to do is download the OfficeConnect mobile app, configure the access points and create your network in the palm of your hand. The OC20 enables your business-critical applications to run at top speed therefore keeping your employees connected and productive. Your guests can also be set up on a separate network which will lead them to a branded login landing page. Guest access can also be limited on specific days and times and website access can also be restricted if they are deemed harmful or inappropriate. Not only is the HPE OfficeConnect range easy to manage with limited support, they are affordable and scalable to support your small business needs at every stage of your business growth model with the Switch Series. The HPE OfficeConnect 1920S Switch Series is designed for bandwidth demanding applications. These advanced smart-managed Gbe switches feature flexibility for easy network configuration and management The HPE OfficeConnect 1820 Switch Series is also ideal for small businesses with smart-managed Gbe Layer 2 switches which offer the latest energy-saving capabilities with simple administration. And lastly, the HPE OfficeConnect 1420 Switch Series is well-suited to small business looking for a low cost plug and play, unmanaged Gbe switch that includes Power-over-Ethernet (PoE+) and 10GB uplink models. Discover more of Axiz’s HPE OfficeConnect offerings here: http://goaxiz.co.za/HPE/networking/ This article was published in partnership with Axiz.