Huawei recently posted a teaser video which revealed the launch date of its highly-anticipated P30. Its next flagship will be the successor to the Huawei P20 and P20 Pro, which both saw huge success in South Africa. The manufacturer has made rapid progress in South African smartphone market, fueled by its impressive hardware which is usually priced at a slightly lower level than competing smartphones. When it comes to the Huawei P30, customers can expect to see premium features from the Mate 20 Pro implemented in the new devices as well as some new functionality. Huawei launched its Mate 20 Pro at the end of 2018, which offered cutting-edge technology – including a 7nm processor, in-screen fingerprint sensor, and powerful camera system. The manufacturer usually implements many of its new features in its P-series flagships after they have been revealed in the Mate series. It is expected that the OLED display and in-screen fingerprint sensor make it to the P30 and P30 Pro, along with the manufacturer’s HiSilicon Kirin 980 processor. This chip delivers impressive AI computing ability and includes support for GPU Turbo 2.0, which means the P30 and P30 Pro should excel at mobile gaming. When it comes to the design, they may also retain the edge-to-edge bezel-less display of the Mate 20 Pro, although it is unclear whether the notch will be the same. Many rumours and leaked images of the Huawei P30 and P30 Pro have been drifting around the Internet ahead of the official launch. Leaked photos and renders point to a full-screen display with a tiny notch at the top for a single front-facing camera and stretching down to the bottom of the chassis. This design incorporates an in-screen fingerprint sensor and Android 9.0 gesture controls for authentication and navigation respectively. According to leaked images from WinFuture, the Huawei P30 Pro will boast four camera lenses on the rear of its chassis, with three placed in a single block and one underneath the flash. This configuration will reportedly allow the Huawei P30 Pro to offer 10x optical zoom, and the lack of a capacitive fingerprint sensor on the back of the leaked render further implies that the P30 will use an in-screen fingerprint sensor. Both of these smartphones will reportedly be smaller than the Mate 20 Pro and will feature all-new camera technology from Leica, Huawei’s partner for mobile photography. These rumoured features may not be in the smartphone at launch and the design may be entirely different from the leaks, but fans of Huawei will be hoping for a premium flagship smartphone with powerful hardware and unprecedented photography capabilities. Huawei is expected to unveil its P30 Series smartphones at a special event in Paris on 26 March 2019.