Companies are increasingly moving to software-defined solutions, according to Ian Jansen van Rensburg – Lead Technologist and Senior Systems Engineering Manager within VMware Sub-Saharan Africa. Van Rensburg was speaking at the MyBroadband 2019 Data Storage, Backup and Recovery Conference, where he detailed the shift taking place in the ICT sector. He stated that companies are moving away from data centres as we know them today, and that “data centres” are now moving closer to the factories, power plants, and organisations they connect to. This shift is thanks to advancements in hardware and software, with hardware becoming smaller and changing its form factor, while software-defined packages which meet many companies’ needs are becoming more widely available. This allows users to seamlessly access their applications from any device at any time, he added. The shift is part of organisations transforming into a digital businesses, which requires the modernisation of their data centres, integration with public clouds, network and security transformation, and the empowering of digital workspaces. Van Rensburg said to achieve this, you need a solid digital foundation with a software-defined approach. This is where VMware comes in, streamlining the move to a digital business using any cloud, application, or device. Its cloud foundation provides intrinsic security across cloud management, virtual compute, virtual storage, and virtual network solutions. The company’s software gives customers the ability to run, manage, connect, and protect all of their apps on any cloud. This reduces costs and lets them gain efficiencies, said Van Rensburg. His statement followed an earlier speech at the conference by Johan Scheepers, Director of Systems Engineering MESAT at Commvault. Scheepers said traditional data backup is on “life support” and companies need to take steps to “ride the data wave”. This includes an increased recovery readiness to respond to threats, particularly those which can take down a data centre.