Many organizations are undergoing Digital Transformation and adopting more scientific, technical and data-driven strategies. Marketing professionals are tasked with quantifying, executing, measuring and expanding a growth strategy based on customer-centric approaches and data-driven decisions. Digital marketers and technical officers need advanced tools, such as Progress Sitefinity CMS, to help implement these beneficial marketing strategies, allowing swift rollout of new web sites, personalized for target markets. Today’s customer, coupled with a highly competitive landscape, requires a fast and personalized experience. Or you lose them. Making it important for marketing to be able to personalise site content based on visitor profiles, personae, lead scoring, and/or behaviour, thereby optimising user experiences and journeys. The goal of a CMS is to create a unified look and feel for a website and reduce the need to code from scratch, enabling users to manage website content without extensive technical knowledge. The modern CMS must deliver more to meet the requirements of the transforming marketing landscape, particularly for Enterprise-level web properties. Being in daily operation, a CMS needs to be easy to use and navigate, offering inline editing, drag and drop modules, layouts, etc. It should provide flexibility to distribute content through an easy to use management facility with workflow and approval processes, saving administration costs. A CMS must offer a superior developer solution, including a robust API and comprehensive built-in modules, that allow for the efficient creation of custom add-ons. Steve Randles, COO at KRS highlights that “Sitefinity CMS , offers extensive value as development costs are reduced and speed to market for new projects are increase by as much as 3 times”. Multi-site management is also key, as it delivers substantial value for leveraging investment in a primary site (design, layout, content, features) for associated brands or other group properties. Web security is of paramount importance as is flexibility and reliability of multiple user authorisation options, that meet stringent enterprise security requirements. Moreover, support from the vendor or a team of local expert partners is a must. Khanyisa Real Systems (KRS) believes that Progress® SitefinityTM – the enterprise level CMS – ticks all these boxes. Certified Sitefinity Developer Mohammed Paleker describes Sitefinity as: “a highly customisable CMS that supports the latest front-end frameworks and popular libraries, with comprehensive API integration. He adds that the support via the Knowledge Base and Portal is excellent.” Furthermore, Gartner recently named Sitefinity as 2018 Peer Insights Customers’ Choice for Web Content Management. KRS is a Microsoft Gold application development and Progress Sitefinity partner whose team of 50+ software professionals has been helping customers fulfil their software requirements for over 30 years. Sitefinity is a leading, enterprise level, .NET CMS, that delivers on the above requirements and offers much more including connectors for Salesforce, Marketo, Sharepoint, and Microsoft Dynamics, as well as its own digital marketing tools. Globally there are in excess of 10 000 Sitefinity websites delivering outstanding customer experiences for brands like NASA, TATA, Danone, Fujitsu, Air Asia, Virgin Active. Locally Old Mutual, Ashburton Investments, Pam Golding Properties, University of the Free State among others, rely on Sitefinity. Visit the KRS website to Partner with KRS, or find out more on how they can help you surpass your customers’ expectations in 2019. This article was published in partnership with Khanyisa Real Systems.