iPhone and Android users are constantly at war over which operating system is superior, but despite the various advantages offered by Android its proponents can’t deny that its update rollout is dismal. This is especially true in comparison to Apple’s roll out of updates for its iOS platform, which are usually delivered to all devices at the same time – and support iPhones and iPads which are several generations old. Conversely, Android updates are rolled out on a per-device basis, beginning with the Google Pixel smartphone line-up. This is because the rollout of a major Android update is an arduous process, especially considering that many manufacturers use their own skins for Android operating systems on their devices. Manufacturers may also choose not to roll out newer updates to old devices, too, due to the reduced performance the smartphones will experience and the time and cost involved in the rollout. NetMarketShare‘s statistics for February 2019 portray a fractured Android user base spread between ageing versions of the operating system – following Android 9.0 (Pie) launching seven months ago. iOS users on the other hand are mostly using iOS 12.1, making this the single most popular OS version despite almost 70% of smartphone users running Android. Below are the most popular mobile operating systems for February 2019. If you look at the table above you might note the absence of Android 9.0 in the most popular operating system rankings. This is no mistake, as Android 9.0 currently has an adoption rate of 0.22%. The latest version of Android was officially launched in August 2018 and is currently less popular than Android 2.2. The rollout of Android 9.0 has been slow, with major manufacturers only recently launching software updates for certain high-end devices. Google’s Project Treble has improved the ability for OEMs to roll out updates to their smartphones quicker than ever, but Android users still lag far behind compared to iOS users. Android may offer certain advantages over Apple’s operating system, but if you want the latest software and OS updates soon after the launch of new features, you are better off using an iPhone. If you prefer to use Android but have not received the next Android update for your device, you could always turn to custom software such as LineageOS. Additionally, while the adoption of Android 9.0 remains close to 0% across the global market, Google is already developing a new version of Android.