Africa’s largest retailer – The Shoprite Group – has IT career opportunities available for experienced security and network infrastructure specialists. With multiple businesses spanning everything from selling groceries to financial services and cybersecurity across 15 countries, the Shoprite Group’s IT capabilities are complex, extensive and ever-growing. The Group employs a vast range of IT professionals – from service technicians for PCs and tills to cybersecurity, data and robotics experts – across multiple geographies and across numerous disciplines. It is constantly looking for specialist technology expertise in areas ranging from business solutions and projects to retail innovation, security, research and development and more. “Precision retailing is the future. Accurate, timely and personalised retail experiences and pricing,” explains Neil Schreuder, head of strategy and innovation for the Shoprite Group. As such the retailer is increasingly investing in technology to enhance the customer experience. Lourena Griebenow, head of Business Solutions and IT projects for the Group, says her division is recruiting business analysts, programme managers and project managers. “We are continuously working on new business initiatives, new technologies or solutions and often partner with global experts on the implementation of projects. We are transforming the business dream into reality, from concept and business case to implementation,” she says. Protecting its customers and its own information has become increasingly critical for the Group as the pool of information grows. Its IT security division focuses on network and cybersecurity on existing infrastructure and new implementations. “Our technology is cutting edge,” states Jacques de Waal, head of IT security. “We deal with innovative new solutions which support business requirements including cloud technology, information security, network redesign and implementation; and cloud migration.” According to De Waal, roles in high demand are security and network infrastructure specialists. “These positions are highly specialised as this is a fast-growing segment. We are looking for experienced people in this space as we also assist with strategy formulation and innovation. It’s not only implementation and support.” Across the Group, IT professionals are offered a wide range of opportunities in different business divisions including banking, finance, supply chain, HR, marketing as well as career and skills development, training, and much more. Click here to view and apply for any IT vacancies at the Shoprite Group. This article was published in partnership with Shoprite.