By Cheryl Otstott Scanning is one of the subjects we get many questions about. There are several ways to scan and that is what seems to bring all the questions. On the multifunction printers (MFP), there is scan to pc, scan to email, scan to a shared folder, scan to desktop, scan to USB, and more.  Not all MFPs have all of the different types of scanning and some forms of scanning may be an option. To help you navigate the scanning setup(s) the Xerox Support YouTube channel has several videos to help you set up the different types of scanning.  Recently two new videos have been uploaded. One video will walk you through setting up the scan to pc desktop on the Xerox WorkCentre 6027 Family products. The other newly uploaded video shows you how to setup scan to smb on Windows 10 OS Xerox AltaLink Family products.  Many of the steps in these videos as it relates to the setup on the PC translates to most of the multifunction printers that have the same feature. The instructions for the setup on the PC side would be the same regardless of the multifunction printer you are using.  Search on the Xerox Support YouTube channel for “scan” to see all the videos that will walk you through scan setup.  Further instructions and instructions for the MAC OS are available on the support pages for your machine.  Simply search on “scan” or narrow your choices by searching on the type of scan you want to use (ex. Scan to desktop, scan to smb, etc.). After reviewing these resources, if you still find you have more questions on scanning consider contacting your support centre by phone or chat, or you can search posts or post a question on the Xerox Support Community Forum. Scanning is one of the most popular features.  If you have not tried scanning from your Xerox device consider giving it a try, the only the thing you have to lose is all those stacks of paper! For more information, visit the Bytes Document Solutions website. This article was published in partnership with Altron Bytes Document Solutions.