GoDaddy officially launched in South Africa this week, promising individuals and businesses a platform which can get them online quickly and affordably. “As small businesses fuel the South African economy, our official launch here signals our commitment to supporting this vibrant entrepreneurial landscape,” said Stefano Maruzzi, GoDaddy VP for EMEA Region. “South Africa is an important market for GoDaddy, with our customer base in the region growing 25% year-on-year in 2018.” The company stated that a significant portion of small businesses in South Africa don’t have an online presence, and GoDaddy plans to deliver locally-relevant online tools and solutions for these businesses. It also announced a launch special for .co.za domain registrations, priced at R10 for the first year. A .com special – R10 for the first year – is running in conjunction with this. Following the local launch, we looked at how much GoDaddy charges to register a domain and host a website on its platform – taking into account the prices which kick in once the special rates expire. GoDaddy is offering specials on .co.za and .com domain registrations. When tested by MyBroadband, the following prices were shown: GoDaddy also offers a range of add-ons once you have selected your domain and want to check out. These are detailed below. The platform offers privacy protection for users, which can be added for an additional fee. When tested, the option was only presented when registering a .com domain. “When you register a domain, your name, address, email address, and phone number are automatically published for the world to see. Protect yourself from spam and scams with GoDaddy Privacy Protection, which replaces your personal information with ours,” said GoDaddy. This prevents a user’s information being displayed in the WHOIS directory. The “Ultimate” version also includes ownership protection from accidental expiration or malicious transfer, and provides automatic malware scans. GoDaddy offers users Linux web hosting on its platform, which comes in three sizes. Economy Deluxe Ultimate The platform’s website states that with regards to its included email service, the following limits apply: Email packages are also available separately from R28.99 per month, said GoDaddy. GoDaddy’s platform offers a free website builder if you take out a package, managed WordPress packages, SSL certificates, and website backup services – all of which can be found on their homepage.