Huawei has seen tremendous growth in South Africa in recent years, becoming a major player in the smartphone market. This success has spread across many market segments, with Huawei smartphones continuing to gain market share in low, middle, and high pricing brackets. The company has also improved its retail service and cloud offerings, launching infrastructure and platforms specifically for the South African market. Huawei also launched its new P30 smartphones this week, which are expected to launch in South Africa in the near future and will be attractively priced. South Africa has historically been one of the first-wave launch countries for Huawei, which means that products will quickly arrive on local shores. Speaking to MyBroadband, Huawei Consumer Business Group CEO Richard Yu confirmed this stance for the P30 smartphones. Yu said that South Africa is a key market for Huawei, with the company seeing continued growth in the smartphone sector. He said that the company has noted good adoption of its smartphone products in the mid-to-high pricing tiers, meaning that more local customers are selecting Huawei products over competing manufacturers. “The South African market is very important for Huawei and we have seen strong growth in South Africa, especially in the middle-to-high tier,” Yu said. “We continue to launch more competitive products in that market and we are confident that we can continue to win more market share.” Yu added that Huawei would continue to invest in its South African presence across multiple sectors. “We will continue to invest more in South Africa across our service, products, and retail services,” Yu told MyBroadband. Over the past year, Huawei has greatly expanded its footprint in South Africa and has overtaken Apple in terms of market share. Speaking at the launch of the Huawei P Smart earlier this year, Huawei South Africa CTO Akhram Mohamed told MyBroadband that Huawei is on the precipice of becoming the biggest player across most, if not all, pricing segments. “In 2018, Huawei was either number one or number two in every pricing segment,” Mohamed said. “And where we are number two, the gap is so small that we think we could break through very quickly.” The company has continued to expand its local presence in other market segments too, and recently launched cloud services in South Africa. Huawei has stated it plans to gradually open more data centres in Kenya, Nigeria, and other African countries to provide localised services.