Traditional data backup is on “life support”, and companies need to take steps to “ride the data wave”. This is according to Johan Scheepers, Director of Systems Engineering MESAT at Commvault. Scheepers was speaking at the MyBroadband 2019 Data Storage, Backup and Recovery Conference, where he detailed how data is growing rapidly in terms of volumes and value. The reason traditional backup is on life support is due to a number of reasons, said Scheepers – highlighting five key areas. The velocity of change in the world of data is rapid, with 90% of the data available today created in the past two years. These volumes will continue to grow going forward and by 2020, 1.7MB of data will be created every second for each person on earth. Scheepers said this rapid change must be managed by companies. Data is a valuable commodity, akin to crude oil, and this means it must be protected appropriately. This is especially the case for data which is needed to keep business operations going. Diverse infrastructure, applications, and workloads have created gaps in talent, skills, and time, said Scheepers. This can lead to silos in individual departments, which can create internal barriers in an organisation. A very important factor is that companies need increased recovery readiness to respond to threats. Scheepers said that when data centres go down or a company’s data is not accessible, it can lead to the companies themselves going down and business functions ceasing. This downtime can lead to massive financial losses, and good recovery solutions are needed to get companies back online as soon as possible. Data privacy requirements, like GDPR and POPI, impact how companies store their data and the rules they have to follow when doing so. Besides privacy requirements from governments, a company’s intellectual property is a set of data which should be accessible by the organisation. 60% of companies’ intellectual property currently sits on laptops, however, not in a data centre, said Scheepers – which can lead to issues down the line. Scheepers said there are five steps IT professionals can follow to take control of their data.