Several technology companies in South Africa recently founded the IoT Industry Council of South Africa (IOTIC), with the first general meeting held on 15 March. The council will represent South Africa’s Internet of Things (IoT) industry, and was founded with three primary objectives in mind. “The first [objective] is to be a trusted voice in educating the market about the benefits of IoT technologies to drive faster adoption,” the IOTIC’s first chair, Roger Hislop, told MyBroadband. Hislop is also the executive head of IoT at Internet Solutions. “It’s secondary function is to work with stakeholders in the interests of its members and the user community in respect of standards, best practices, and regulatory compliance.” IOTIC’s third objective is to create technical and business resources to build skills, share knowledge, and save people from reinventing the wheel. The initial focus of the organisation will be to build an understanding of Internet of Things technology, Hislop said. “What it can do, and why it is an invaluable part of running a modern organisation.” It will also contribute to the South African government’s initiatives in promoting the Fourth Industrial Revolution, where IoT is a fundamental technology. “Part of this programme is working with civil society to show that IoT systems bring operational efficiency and better visibility. They don’t take away jobs or replace people,” said Hislop. “IoT can enhance service delivery, increase security, and make South Africa more competitive – both regionally and globally – to drive the economic growth that creates jobs.” The founding members of the IOT Industry Council of South Africa are: Internet Solutions, Nerospec IOT, Real Telematics Systems (RTS), SqwidNet, Activate Group, Comsol Networks, CST Electronics, Dimension Data, Eseye, Macrocomm, Microsoft, MTN, SoftwareAG, and Vodacom. There are three membership types: Hislop said that membership fees have yet to be determined, as the organisation is finalising its operating budget. “We are looking to make it as affordable as possible, to cast the net of membership wider to startups and new market entrants.”