As one of the oldest, most established business schools in Africa, Wits Business School (WBS) has been graduating business leaders for fifty years. WBS introduced its Postgraduate Diploma in Business Administration (PDBA) in 2016 as a result of changes in the Department of Higher Education (DHE)’s policy framework which requires MBA applicants to have an Honours degree.  Since then, the new PDBA has seen significant uptake. In fact, such is the demand that there are now two intakes per year, in January and in June. What is a PDBA? In a nutshell, the PDBA is a one-year programme which is designed to provide ambitious graduates with a broad understanding of the world of business to accelerate their career and personal growth. As a generalist qualification, the PDBA programme includes modules in business law, critical business skills, management and financial accounting, technology and operations management, sales and marketing, people management, entrepreneurship, strategy and economics. One of the reasons behind the PDBA’s appeal is that the programme is part-time, or ‘block release’, enabling students to work while they study.  At NQF8 (Honours) level, the PDBA is a stand-alone qualification but at the same time can be a ‘bridge’ to the MBA for those who wish to continue studying. Many WBS PDBA graduates decide to continue their studies as certain credits count towards an MBA. Graduates of the PDBA can complete their MBA part-time in one year, instead of the usual 18 months. Another advantage of the PDBA is that it gives the student more flexibility in terms of choice of study format. The January intake offers a choice of evening classes (two per week) or Saturday classes; while the June intake offers a modular (block release format). In addition, for those who don’t have the requisite amount of work experience for an MBA, the PDBA may be an option.  A PDBA requires a minimum of two years’ work experience while the MBA requires a minimum of three years’ work experience, with two years of managerial experience. Like the MBA, Wits Business School’s PDBA has been specifically designed to reflect our context in Africa and to meet the changing needs of business people.  The curriculum revolves around five key themes:  Context in Africa; Context in South Africa; Sustainability; Entrepreneurial Action, and Critical Engagement. For more information, visit the Wits Business School website on www.wbs.ac.za. This article was published in partnership with Wits Business School.