MultiChoice recently announced its price hikes for 2019, detailing how much users will pay for their satellite TV packages from 1 April. The company stated that it will freeze the price of DStv Premium this year, ensuring customers will pay the same rate for their package. DStv’s Compact Plus package, which falls below Premium, increased from R509 to R519, while the service’s Access Fee – which allows users to access PVR functionality, Catch Up content, and independent viewing environments – went from R90 to R95. Price increases across DStv’s lower-tier packages were also implemented. To see how DStv’s new prices stack up against alternative forms of entertainment, we compared them to the combination of a Netflix subscription and an uncapped fibre account. With an uncapped fibre account and Netflix package, users can stream content at home whenever they feel like it without worrying about using up a monthly data allocation. The comparison is a popular one locally, as Netflix is seen as a replacement for DStv Premium – unless you are a live sports and news watcher. While Netflix offers a wide range of series and movies, it does not provide live sports and news. The comparison is broken down into the following sections: DStv Premium is the top package on the platform, with 142 channels, while Compact Plus is the second-best offering – including 124 channels. A primary difference between the two is that Compact Plus does not include the following “high value” channels: SuperSport 1, 2, 5, and 6, M-Net, M-Net Movies Premiere, and Bloomberg. In the case of Netflix, the difference between the packages does not affect content. Netflix Standard offers all content, along with full HD resolution and two viewing environments. Netflix Premium offers all content, but provides three streaming environments and UHD resolution. This is the reason for associating different fibre line speeds to the two Netflix accounts, as 10Mbps fibre will be more than enough to stream full HD content – while a 20Mbps line will be sufficient to stream UHD content. The table below details the monthly pricing of the packages.