GoDaddy has officially launched in South Africa, the company announced at an event in Johannesburg on 13 March. The launch signals GoDaddy’s intention to engage with small business owners and entrepreneurs in South Africa, the company said. It will offer more tools and support to help small enterprises build an online presence and grow their business. “As small businesses fuel the South African economy, our official launch here signals our commitment to supporting this vibrant entrepreneurial landscape, which plays a critical role in helping to drive prosperity and creating jobs,” said Stefano Maruzzi, GoDaddy VP for EMEA Region. “South Africa is an important market for GoDaddy, with our customer base in the region growing 25% year-on-year in 2018.” A significant portion of small businesses in South Africa don’t yet have an online presence, GoDaddy said. It recently surveyed 250 South African small business owners who indicated that time, budget, and online knowledge represent significant barriers to them getting online. GoDaddy plans to deliver locally-relevant online tools and solutions, and be a partner for South African entrepreneurs. This includes naming their idea and building a professional website, attracting and engaging with customers online, managing their work, and driving results. It said that its South African website already offers products and services targeted at South African customers, with 24-hour support available through local telephone numbers and online chat. Maruzzi said that although he could not share specific numbers, GoDaddy is investing more money in South Africa. When GoDaddy first announced that it was entering the South African market, it added the ability to register .co.za domains for R89 per year. It also had a special on .com registrations of R14.99 for the first year. The company has since introduced a special on .co.za domains, and it is now asking R10 for the first year. It has also reduced the price on its .com special to R10 for the first year. For those interested in selling domains, GoDaddy said it offers a platform where customers can buy and sell domain names.