Thanks to the possibilities that cloud offers, your network equipment can be anywhere, from any geographic location, in any part of the world, without access being an issue. This means you need to be able to access your equipment remotely, and with the ability to do so you’ll reap a multitude of benefits. Netshield’s Point of Presence Convergence gateways helps customers remotely manage infrastructure, sensitive equipment, energy and water distribution and respond accurately to environmental threats such as fires and even flooding, at scale and across multiple sites. By deploying multiple of these devices, you will have a full view of events and be able to ensure the even distribution of services such as power and water in a multi-site environment. It’s the perfect solution for those required to monitor multiple and often disparate and siloed systems and applications across a location. Furthermore, they are able to automate otherwise manual activities helping a service provider meet SLAs as well as help reduce costs of unnecessary, costly callouts, and delays to customers. “These devices monitor every aspect of a critical system at the most granular level. Service providers looking to monitor remote high sites, ATMs, branch offices and mobile applications can zoom into the environment to view who has accessed the installation, monitor cyclical events, check the power feed, the temperature, flooding and humidity. More importantly they create a single view of multiple remote sites or different instances and applications on a single dashboard,” said Inus Dreckmeyr, CEO at Netshield South Africa. By connecting IoT sensors for monitoring multiple applications that could potentially disrupt business operations, the application and business case for these devices become limitless. Extend this to warehousing environments and their transport companies can use the point of presence gateway in conjunction with a remote locking system when transporting goods between destinations. With the use of the integrated API, database-based information can be pivoted between various databases and information from events from different sources can be converged, and then used in a customised and holistic dashboard that converges silo-based information into a single view. According to Dreckmeyr, in the case of an SLA, a company can cut down costs by up to 45%. Bearing in mind that a call out can cost up to R950 without factoring in travel costs and delays, by using the remote management features built into the devices such as remote power reset and remote network management, the cost of unnecessary support costs and downtime at the client is negated. “In our experience the gateways are particularly useful for companies that have multiple instances of an application they need to track. Hospitals and clinics for example need to report on the cold storage of blood and certain pharmaceuticals where the cold chain needs to remain intact. Our devices can provide insights into how long doors are opened, by who and when,” he adds. “The power of automation that IoT sensors give us is staggering, especially when deployed at scale and when they are used to alert users to events, monitor environments and provide proactive insights and actions,” said Dreckmeyr. For more information contact marketing@netshieldsa.com or contact Inus Dreckmeyr at +27 (12) 841 0320. This article was published in partnership with Netshield.