Telkom is migrating customers from postpaid copper landlines to LTE-based look-alike services, but it is still installing copper in certain areas. A Telkom customer recently contacted MyBroadband after ordering a new landline and encountering trouble with the company’s installation process. Despite repeated emails to Telkom’s support team and an appeal to ICASA to assist, the customer was unable to get a landline installed to his premises. He subsequently contacted MyBroadband for help, and we reached out to Telkom to determine whether its installation team was still taking on orders. The customer ordered a new Telkom landline to be installed at their premises in Gauteng on 8 July 2019. A Telkom consultant called him directly afterwards and confirmed the customer’s details and order. However, after not hearing back from Telkom by 22 July, he followed up on the progress of his order. It was only once he followed up on the landline installation that Telkom officially placed his order for the product. He continued to follow up on the progress of the landline via email, but he did not receive feedback from Telkom staff until 16 August – when his line was installed by a technician. This was not the end of his problems, however, as his landline would not work until Telkom closed the order. The customer was told to wait seven days for this to occur. Following this period, he was still unable to use the landline and he sent repeated emails to Telkom support. Telkom responded on 27 August, stating that the customer’s query had been escalated. Telkom confirmed to MyBroadband that the issue was resolved on 29 August 2019, attributing the installation delay to an “internal process anomaly”. “Telkom apologises for the delay in installing the requested service for our customer,” the company said. “We value his patronage and understand the inconvenience that this has caused.” “Our average time to install services of this nature is 20 days from receipt of order, which is well within the stipulations set out by the regulator regarding service delivery.” “In the instance of the installation at the customer’s premises, however, an internal process anomaly was identified that caused the delay,” Telkom said. “We have since resolved this and the service was installed and is now working.” It is odd to see new copper landlines being installed, however, considering that Telkom is actively migrating ADSL and landline users to newer technologies. Telkom is offering postpaid fixed-line customers “Smart Voice” packages, which are fibre or “fixed wireless landline look-alike” products that usually include additional features such as mobile data, minutes, and free on-net calls. Telkom did not respond to questions from MyBroadband regarding its policy on new prepaid and postpaid copper line installations.