Enterprises are embarking on a wave of digital transformation that is changing the fundamental approaches to how they are bringing business and productivity services to their internal and external customers. The enterprise IT landscape has evolved rapidly influenced by the increased importance of cloud, the explosion of Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) and the initial adoption of IoT (Internet of Things). This is not only changing how businesses are serving their customers, but also how they architect their business networks across the globe. The rise of these new IT models and their expected user experience and agility is bringing to light the inefficiencies of existing wide area network (WAN) architectures and the cost of the connectivity services they consume. This has given rise to a “Software Defined WAN” (SD-WAN) to address these inefficiencies. At its core, SD-WAN is an overlay technique that sits on top of the existing WAN architecture. SD-WAN combines diverse network circuits, like broadband and LTE. These can be added to existing MPLS to create a hybrid network, or they can replace MPLS altogether, with all-Internet wired and wireless connections. It allows organisations to set up new sites quickly, connect those sites, exchange information and deliver applications with agility and at a much lower cost than traditional MPLS. SD-WAN routers can combine the bandwidth of multiple WAN connections. Organizations using SD-WANs can easily add or remove WAN connections as needed. They can also combine cellular and fixed-line connections. Under an SD-WAN implementation, bandwidth can easily be added or reduced as requirements evolve. The technology also allows the rapid deployment of WAN services to a remote site without the need to dispatch IT personnel to the location. Broadband Internet links generally cost much less than carrier-grade MPLS connections, which are typically encumbered by long provisioning times and expensive contracts. SD-WAN technology also allows organisations to effectively leverage all available network connections to their full capacity without worrying about maintaining idle backup links. SD-WAN technology uses the internet to create secure, high-performance connections, eliminating the backhaul penalties imposed by MPLS networks. This allows SD-WANs to deliver business applications cost-effectively while optimizing Software as a Service (SaaS) and other cloud-based services. The technology also improves IT efficiency at branch offices by enabling automation and provides reliable, inexpensive links for IoT projects. Versa Networks provides a diverse set of software-defined infrastructure for enterprises to address their WAN and branch office challenges. Versa Software-Defined WAN (SD-WAN) enables enterprises to increase their bandwidth and cloud experience, improve flexibility and decrease the cost of their legacy WAN all with an application-driven and software-defined overlay solution. Versa enhances SD-WAN with Software-Defined Security (SD-Security) by offering next-generation firewall (NGFW) and unified threat management (UTM) services, securing application and user connectivity across the enterprise WAN, branch and private/public clouds. Enterprises can combine SD-WAN and SD-Security to transform to a software-defined branch (SD-Branch) and experience the operational, financial and security benefits of a fully software-defined services architecture. This article was published in partnership with Duxbury Networking.