Gartner has reported that global smartphone sales declined by 1.7% in the second quarter of 2019. Key to this is the fact that there has been a sizable decline in demand for premium smartphones. “Demand for high-end smartphones has slowed at a greater rate than demand for midrange and low-end smartphones,” said Anshul Gupta, senior research director at Gartner. Gupta added that smartphone manufacturers have been trying to bring premium features to mid-range smartphones to counteract this trend. “To try to boost smartphone replacements, we’ve seen manufacturers bringing premium features such as multi-lens front/back cameras, bezel-less displays and large batteries from their flagship smartphones into lower-priced models.” Apple was the biggest loser of the big three smartphone brands in the latest quarter, as its market share declined from 11.9% in Q2 2018 to 10.5% for the same period this year. The company’s total smartphone sales for Q2 2019 decreased by 13.8% year-on-year. “Too few incremental benefits are preventing existing iPhone users from replacing their smartphones,” said Gupta. “Apple has reached an inflection point marked by shifting its business toward services, which represented 21% of the vendor’s total revenue in the first quarter of 2019.” It should also be noted that Apple is due to launch its latest iPhones this month, a potential reason that its current range of smartphones has suffered from poor sales recently. Samsung, on the other hand, has seen good growth – increasing its Q2 market share by 1.1% year-on-year. “Strong demand for Samsung’s new Galaxy A series smartphones and the revamp of its entire entry-level and midrange smartphone ranges helped this positive performance,” said Gupta. “Demand for Samsung’s flagship Galaxy S10 started to weaken during the quarter, however, indicating that achieving growth in 2019 as a whole will be a challenge.” Huawei continued to increase its market share, going from 13.3% in Q2 2018 to 15.8% for the same period this year. However, the announcement of US companies being banned from working with Huawei hurt the company’s sales significantly. The ban’s deferment, however, saw the company regain some of these lost sales. The company showed its biggest gains in China, growing by 31% and selling a record number of smartphones in the region. The latest worldwide smartphone sales statistics from Gartner are below.