Cell C CEO Douglas Craigie Stevenson has admitted that Cell C’s investment in its Black streaming service was not a good move. “Black was not the right play for Cell C,” Craigie Stevenson said, speaking at Blue Label Telecoms’ annual results presentation for the year ended 31 May 2019. “We did not have the resources to compete in that environment,” he added. Cell C’s financial results – which were declared as a part of Blue Label’s results presentation – showed that it had scaled back its investment into the Black streaming service. This was done to improve both the company’s operational efficiency and its financial position, Craigie Stevenson said. He added that running a content service like Black presents difficult challenges to mobile operators, and that nobody has developed a solution to the problems posed by implementing this offering – not even the incumbent networks (Vodacom and MTN). “We are going to start bringing the investment down in Black and start rethinking where we are,” he added, confirming that the company was at the very least scaling down its focus on the streaming platform. Craigie Stevenson did not state whether Cell C planned to shut down Black entirely, but did say that the company would move forward with a model focused more on content aggregation than a direct streaming service offering. Cell C’s annual financial results showed a net loss of R8.03 billion after tax. Craigie Stevenson cited numerous reasons for the company arriving at this position, including the following: Despite its financial position, Craigie Stevenson believes that Cell C can recover via a turnaround strategy which is aimed at improving performance and management within the company. “We are getting the business into the right place,” he said. “We are getting rid of costs, getting more efficient, and understanding what a performance culture is all about.” Craigie Stevenson stated that the company needs to be more efficient than any of its competitors in order to recover and improve its position going forward. “We need to be more efficient than anybody in this business. We cannot do about R1.5 billion a month in turnover and make a loss.”