Roll on the weekend, when a fresh crop of new releases come to Ster-Kinekor. An intense journey to the furthest reaches of the solar system, a returning legend and an imminent royal visit are all set to bring drama, action and adventure to Ster-Kinekor’s diverse range of cinemas – so pick your experience and book now! The highly anticipated space epic Ad Astra stars Brad Pitt as astronaut Roy McBride, who journeys to the furthest reaches of the solar system to find his missing father, played by Tommy Lee Jones. If ever there was a film worth seeing at an IMAX cinema, this is it. Director James Gray has set out to create “the most realistic depiction of space travel that’s been put in a movie”, and so far it seems he’s succeeded: Rotten Tomatoes’ critical consensus is that “Ad Astra takes a visually thrilling journey through the vast reaches of space while charting an ambitious course for the heart of the bond between parent and child.” Brad Pitt’s performance has also been praised, although he has said he’s going to “abstain” from campaigning for an Oscar this year. Ad Astra also stars Liv Tyler, Donald Sutherland, and Ruth Negga. Watch the trailer here.  Next, everyone’s favourite veteran is back: Rambo: Last Blood sees Sylvester Stallone return as the legendary soldier for one final chapter. This time, he must take on a particularly vicious drug cartel in a bid to bring home his kidnapped niece – watch the trailer here.  Rambo: Last Blood is releasing in both 2D and in Cine Prestige theatres, where you’ll be able to experience all the explosive action from the luxury of a leather recliner, order up some gourmet snacks and watch Sly wreak vengeance on those who drew first blood. Finally, Downton Abbey is releasing at selected Ster-Kinekor and Cinema Nouveau theatres – great news for all devoted fans of the six-season TV series, which followed the life and times of the aristocratic Crawley family. The movie reunites the original cast, including Dame Maggie Smith, Michelle Dockery, Hugh Bonneville and Jim Carter, and takes up the story two years later, just as the household is thrown into disarray by an imminent Royal visit. Watch the trailer here.  To book tickets for these and many other films visit www.sterkinekor.com, download the SK App on your smartphone or book at the box office. For news and updates, go to Facebook: Ster-Kinekor Theatres | follow Ster-Kinekor on Twitter: @Ster-Kinekor. For all queries, call Ticket-line on 0861 Movies (668 437). This article was published in partnership with Ster-Kinekor.