With Friday 13th just passed, and October looming – which means that Halloween is lurking just around a dark corner – perhaps it’s unsurprising that two of the diverse new movies coming to Ster-Kinekor this week are horror films. Book now for Ready or Not and Polaroid, both releasing on Friday, 27 September 2019. In Ready or Not, Samara Weaving plays Grace, a young newlywed who is welcomed into the Le Domas family with a longstanding tradition. The Le Domas family is rich, thanks to their booming games business, but as it turns out, they had a little help in getting there. They have a dark debt to repay, and so anyone joining their family must be initiated by playing a game – at midnight. All well and good, until Grace picks Hide and Seek, and launches a night of murderous mayhem. So far, critics have described Ready or Not as “smart, subversive, and darkly funny”, “deliciously diabolical”, and “wickedly entertaining”, and masters of horror Stephen King, R.L.Stine and Guillermo del Toro have all taken to social media to express their appreciation of the satire. Along with a breakout performance from Weaving, Ready or Not stars Adam Brody, Mark O ‘Brien, Henry Czerny and Andie McDowell, and is a must-see for anyone looking for a dark comedy to get them through a crazy week. Watch the trailer here.  Then there’s supernatural horror Polaroid, directed by Lars Klevberg. Horror fans have been waiting for this one since the director released his short film of the same name back in 2015. Katherine Prescott stars as Bird Fitcher, a high school loner whose co-worker gives her an old Polaroid camera. However, there’s something very wrong with it – anyone she photographs soon turns up dead. Along with her crush Connor, played by Tyler Young, Bird sets out to warn her friends and unravel the shadowy and twisted secrets behind the Polaroid – before it’s too late. Watch the trailer here.  To book tickets for these new releases, visit www.sterkinekor.com or the Ster-Kinekor app. Follow us on Twitter at @sterkinekor and on Facebook at Ster-Kinekor. To secure your tickets, contact Ticketline on 0861 Movies (668 437). Ster-Kinekor Club and Discovery members receive discounts among other benefits. This article was published in partnership with Ster-Kinekor.