Blue Label Telecoms has announced that it will sell interests in various business units to raise capital. The company stated that it will sell its interests in Blue Label Mobile Group (VAS Operations) to DNI, pending shareholder approval. In addition, Blue Label’s subsidiary, The Prepaid Company, has agreed to sell, subject to various suspensive conditions, its interest in 3G Mobile – excluding the share capital held in and loan claims against Comm Equipment Company – to DNI. “DNI is an investment holding company that specialises in distribution and retail for the telecommunications industry,” it said. Blue Label said the move was in reaction to the “significant investments” it has made in the past two years, and the need to “deleverage the business in order to ensure a more robust and liquid balance sheet”. “The disposals thereof will not have a negative impact on the extensive distribution network that Blue Label has established and will not inhibit its distribution capabilities nor on Blue Label’s ability to achieve its strategic objectives going forward.” The company detailed the value of the proposed transactions as follows: plus plus Blue Label also stated that subsidiary The Prepaid Company has agreed to sell its interest in 3G Mobile. It will sell 100% of the issued shares in 3G Mobile to DNI. “The initial consideration payable for the 3G Distribution Transaction will be R544 million. The initial consideration will be adjusted by the net amount by which surplus/inadequate provision was made for bad debts, obsolete trading stock in the consolidated audited 2019 balance sheet of 3G Mobile.” The funds obtained from the transactions will be applied to reduce Blue Label’s current interest-bearing debt, concluded the company. The announcement from Blue Label comes the evening before it is set to report its latest annual financial results. These results were set to be revealed earlier in the year, but were delayed due to problems at Cell C. On 19 August, Blue Label Telecoms warned shareholders that it expects headline earnings for the year ended May 2019 to be down by at least 20% from the prior year. It added that its audit for the year ended May 2019 was ‘substantially complete’, but that it was in the process of determining the valuation of its investment in Cell C. Blue Label owns a 45% stake in Cell C, which it bought for R5.5 billion