If you’re looking to escape the daily grind with a venture into the magic of the big screen, look out for these four new releases coming to Ster-Kinekor this week: First off, there’s Hustlers, eagerly awaited by many thanks to its spectacular cast. Based on the viral New York Times story of a group of strip club employees who scam a fortune from their Wall Street clients, Hustlers features Jennifer Lopez, Constance Wu, and Cardi B – herself a former stripper who allegedly robbed customers to survive – and Lizzo, making her on-screen debut. Catch the trailer here.  Next, the more family-friendly Dora and the Lost City of Gold brings the famous explorer – she of the disconcerting stare and blink – to the big screen. Now 16, Dora is sent to high school while her parents go in search of a lost treasure – and end up in trouble. Dora sets off with Diego, her monkey Boots and a group of teenagers to save her parents and unravel the mystery of the Lost City. Watch the trailer here.  Not one but two local films release this week, a testament to SA’s burgeoning film industry. So, instead of celebrating Heritage Month with the mandatory braai, why not take a trip to the cinema to see some home-grown talent in action? Directed by Brett Michael Innes and starring Zenobia Kloppers, Drikus Volschenk and Melissa Withering, Fiela se Kind tells Dalene Matthee’s heartrending story of a coloured woman who takes in a lost white child and raises him as her own, until the authorities insist that he go to a white couple claiming to be his parents. Beautifully shot on location in Knysna and the Karoo, this looks to be a tearjerker – see the trailer here.  Losing Lerato deals with equally emotional subject matter: when his wife prevents him from seeing his daughter, Thami is driven to increasingly desperate measures in his bid to reunite with Lerato. His actions lead him up against the law, and eventually put those around him in danger. Losing Lerato is directed by Sanele Zulu and stars real-life father and daughter Kagiso and Tshimillo Modupe alongside Samela Tyebooi, Thato Molamu, Nolo Phiri, Mpaseka Koetle, Ayanda Borotho, and Zandile Msutwana. Watch the trailer here.  To book tickets for these and many other films visit www.sterkinekor.com, download the SK App on your smartphone or book at the box office. For news and updates, go to Facebook: Ster-Kinekor Theatres | follow Ster-Kinekor on Twitter: @Ster-Kinekor. For all queries, call Ticket-line on 0861 Movies (668 437). This article was published in partnership with Ster-Kinekor.