When it comes to your IoT needs, it is important that you have the right hardware to ensure optimal connectivity. The Sierra Wireless Airlink LX 40 IoT router offers everything you could want in an IoT router and much, much more – making it the perfect choice. It offers both fast and reliable connectivity across a variety of wireless technologies including LTE, LTE-M, NB-IoT, and even Wi-Fi, and provides extended coverage range and reach to ensure that you have a good connection in even the most challenging of locations. The LX 40 also enables the processing of data on the edge, and is designed to meet all requirements over a vast array of environments and requirements. This is because it boasts an integrated 7-36VDC, industrial grade power supply, and can withstand temperatures ranging from -30C to 65C. It also offers military-spec conformance to shock, vibration, thermal shock, and humidity – making it capable of handling the harshest of conditions. This router can operate without additional power conditioning or adapters, further enabling its ability to thrive in tough situations. Due to its extensive range of features and its incredible reliability, the LX 40 router is well equipped to be used across a vast range of applications. Ideal applications for which it can serve as a primary cellular connectivity include the following: The LX 40 covers a range of cellular frequency bands across 2G, 3G, 4G, LTE-M, and NB-IoT. For its 4G category, the LX 40 can offer up to 150Mbps download, and up to 50Mbps upload speeds. The frequency bands covered are detailed below. The optional Wi-Fi connectivity spans both the 2.4GHz and the 5GHz WiFi bands, and supports up to the Wi-Fi 5 standard. It can host up to 10 clients simultaneously and uses the incredibly secure WPA2 Enterprise security standard. Other security benefits of using the LX 40 include Remote authentication, Port filtering, MAC address filtering, PCI compatibility, and secure firmware updates. Your IoT implementation needs a high-quality router to ensure that it has no connectivity issues, and the Sierra Wireless LX 40 offers incredible performance and reliability benefits across a broad range of uses. Altron Arrow is the local supplier for this router, as well as a variety of other electronic components and devices. Click here to learn more from Altron Arrow about this router – which will take care of your IoT system with ease. This article was published in partnership with Altron Arrow.