Although 2019 has already seen many great games launched, there are still a ton of epic titles coming in the final months of the year. The most anticipated titles still coming in 2019 are listed below. Doom Eternal is the upcoming addition to the demon-slaying franchise. One of the biggest new features is the addition of a grappling hook attachment to your shotgun, but overall the fast-paced shoot-em-up action associated with the title will continue. Doom Eternal is set to launch on 22 November. <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> The latest addition franchise has been met with much fanfare, and it promises hours of crazy gameplay. Expect new, over-the-top characters and a continuation of the open-world, quest-and-loot formula that has served the franchise well over the years. Borderlands 3 will launch on 13 September.  Call of Duty is reworking its popular Modern Warfare games by bringing back old characters and adding a new storyline. Call of Duty: Modern Warfare will launch on 12 September.  Respawn Entertainment, the developer behind Titanfall, has announced a new Star Wars game. This will be a single player game; will be available on PC, Xbox, and PlayStation; and is set shortly after the Revenge of the Sith movie. The game is set to release on 15 November.  The popular soccer game is set to release on 27 September. This year, EA Sports has added a new Volta Football street soccer mode, which is a throwback to the FIFA Street series of years gone by. It will also include the various game modes that fans have come to know, including Ultimate Team and Career Mode.  The Ghost Recon titles transitioned to an open world model with Ghost Recon Wildlands, and will continue in this vein with the release of Breakpoint. The game will launch on 4 October.  From the creators of Fallout: New Vegas, The Outer Worlds is a hybrid between the Fallout and Borderlands series. While it will take place on a smaller map, it is expected to include the RPG elements and character development from Fallout: New Vegas. The Outer Worlds will launch on 25 October.  Need for Speed will launch its latest iteration on 8 November. Need for Speed Heat will take place in the fictional Palm City, and will include all of the regular features of the series – such as street racing, cop chases, and extensive vehicle customisation. Pervasive microtransactions have tainted the series in recent years, but it appears that EA is moving a step in the right direction with Need for Speed Heat – as EA announced that it will be removing some of the paid features that were present in its previous Need for Speed game, Payback. 