The ability to make and receive voice calls is crucial to the running of an efficient business. However, this can lead to high phone bills – which ultimately hurts your profit margins. That’s why you should consider Vodacom’s Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) – as Vodacom VoIP solutions can save your business up to 30% on its monthly phone bills. VoIP allows your business to make and receive voice calls over any dedicated or broadband internet connection rather than through traditional means.  Backed by a world class IP network, Vodacom guarantees high call quality voice calls to national fixed, cellular and international destinations. VoIP through Vodacom Business is also capable of connecting to most Private Branch Exchanges (PBX’s) – meaning that you won’t need to worry about getting a new PBX to utilise the Vodacom VoIP offering. If however you require a new PBX, Vodacom has a range of hosted and onsite PBX and unified communications solutions that will cater for all your telephony needs and offer fixed and mobile convergence. The technological benefits of VoIP technology are extensive, and include the following: Vodacom is a trusted name in mobile and Internet solutions across South Africa. As part of their extensive business products, Vodacom offers a comprehensive VoIP product portfolio that offers a solution to your every calling need. They offer four core VoIP services to businesses. Interbranch VoIP allows you to connect your company’s various PBXs to Vodacom’s Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) or Software-Defined Wide Area IP Network (SD-WAN). This service also allows voice calls to be routed seamlessly across your branches.  Interbranch VoIP to VoIP calls are free across the Vodacom IP Network. Local and National VoIP offers great savings for calls made across the country. These calls are carried over Vodacom’s IP network to any fixed landline number (e.g. 012, 031, 041, 051, 011, 010 etc.). Cellular VoIP is specifically designed for calls made to any cellphone users in the country on any network (e.g. 082, 083, 084, 076 etc.). Calls are rated according to Vodacom VoIP rates and billed per second. International VoIP cater for customers that are required to make important international calls.  Vodacom VoIP has the ability to terminate a VoIP call in most countries globally. Save your business money today by transitioning onto a VoIP solution from Vodacom Business. Vodacom can port your landline numbers to its VoIP product – so there is no reason to delay. Click here to learn more about VoIP for Business from Vodacom and to request a call back. This article was published in partnership with Vodacom Business.