DStv is the only television platform in South Africa which will broadcast the 2019 Rugby World Cup in Japan, Rapport reported. The SABC has confirmed that it could not reach an agreement with SuperSport for the broadcasting rights to the tournament. According to SABC spokesperson Vuyo Mthembu, the cost of the 2019 Rugby World Cup broadcasting rights is not commercially viable for the organisation. The SABC is, however, still in talks with SuperSport about broadcasting the tournament matches live on radio. Last month, the SABC and MultiChoice said they had reached an agreement regarding the broadcast rights for local Premier Soccer League (PSL) matches. Both parties reached a compromise after the SABC previously failed to reach the required licence agreement with the PSL and SuperSport. The SABC refused to pay the R280 million required to obtain the broadcast rights for the PSL, as it was only projected to earn R9.8 million per year from airing the content. The SABC has not aired any PSL football matches since the beginning of the season, with the PSL previously labelling this blackout “unacceptable”. Sports Minister Nathi Mthethwa and Communications Minister Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams met with PSL, SABC, and MultiChoice to find a solution to the impasse. The parties subsequently issued a joint statement confirming that an agreement had been reached. The lack of live sport on the SABC is closely linked to the poor financial position the state broadcaster finds itself in. The SABC has recently published a proposal to increase TV licence fees as one of the ways to improve its dire financial position. The SABC’s CFO, Yolande van Biljon, said that a proposal to increases TV licence fees had been drafted and sent to the Minister of Communications, Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams. The Democratic Alliance (DA), however, will oppose this proposal, arguing that it amounts to the taxation of already over-burdened South African taxpayers. “We call on the public broadcaster to find new revenue streams to stay afloat instead of imposing increases to TV licence fees,” said DA Shadow Minister of Communications and Digital Technologies Phumzile Van Damme. She added that the SABC needs to find innovative measures to strengthen its collection of revenue as poor South Africans will, without doubt, be unlikely to afford increased licence fees.