Android 10, the latest version of Google’s popular mobile operating system, offers some impressive new features that you should consider using. It has already begun rolling out to Google’s Pixel smartphones, and Google is in discussions with other smartphone makers to upgrade their current and new devices to Android 10. The operating system will also support new technologies such as 5G and foldable smartphones, and includes over 50 privacy and security changes. Android 10 is also available in beta versions for selected devices, and is expected to roll out to many popular handsets by the end of the year. We have outlined how to activate and use some of the best features on Android 10 below. Dark mode has become a popular feature due to the various benefits it offers users. These include reduced eye fatigue, reduced power consumption, and better functionality in poor light. Android has followed the likes of Google Chrome and Microsoft Office by offering a system-wide dark mode on its latest Android 10 operating system. Activating this mode is very simple: Gesture controls offer an entirely different control scheme to the usual three buttons that are used for navigation at the bottom of your screen. Activate this setting by navigating to Settings > System > Gesture > System Navigation > Gesture Navigation. Once activated, users can use various gesture controls such as: Location tracking can pose a serious threat to your security. While turning your location tracking off completely is a quick and comprehensive solution to this problem, it also means that you lose out on functionality for many applications. Android 10 now allows users more rigorous control over how their apps are allowed to track their location. If you wish to edit the permissions of specific apps, you can now choose between a variety of options, including allowing an app to access your location data only when you’re actively using it. To edit the permissions of individual apps: It can be a tedious process to share your Wi-Fi password with your friends or family. Android 10 solves this by allowing you to create a QR code that your guests can scan to join your home network. Accessing this QR code is simple: Google has implemented a new Live Caption feature that allows Android users to activate captions on any video. This feature does not require an Internet connection, making it particularly useful for videos you have downloaded or recorded on your device. To activate this feature: