When it comes to connecting, customers look to businesses who can meet their needs quickly, conveniently and easily. The WhatsApp Business solution empowers businesses to do exactly that while simultaneously improving customers’ experience. Hello Paisa, a market leader in the international remittance market in South Africa, is continuously seeking innovative ways to effectively address customer needs and provide a holistic enhanced customer experience. Driven by solutionist thinking, Hello Paisa seeks to solve customers’ problems by harnessing the life-enhancing power of technology. Likewise, CM.com believes that technology exists to enhance people’s lives by making them better, safer and easier.  Having recognized the powerful synergistic impact of the WhatsApp Business solution on its existing money remittance offering, Hello Paisa has chosen CM.com as its solution provider. Previously, the main problem facing the migrant workforce in South Africa was the complicated process of sending money home and the inherent high costs of doing so. Hello Paisa’s solution to the problem is its easy-to-use money remittance app that enables customers to send cash to countries across the world in a manner that is affordable, fast and safe.  With the Hello Paisa app, all you need is an active account and your mobile phone to easily create a transaction and send money home instantly. The high cost of data, however, remains a factor that prevents many customers from accessing the app. The solution: WhatsApp Business API. By using the WhatsApp Business solution, Hello Paisa customers can now initiate transactions via WhatsApp, thus taking a ground-breaking step into conversational commerce! From the comfort of an already utilized platform, Hello Paisa customers can now conveniently, easily and cost-effectively initiate transactions, obtain exchange rates, view transaction history, create or delete a recipient, and refer a friend. The ability to initiate transactions through WhatsApp not only solves the problem of prohibitive data costs, but also translates into increased accessibility and greater inclusivity of Hello Paisa’s customer base.  Solutionist thinking at its best!  In addition, the WhatsApp Business solution allows Hello Paisa to generate leads, provide instant customer support, share useful information, manage conversations, and effectively engage with customers on a platform that they prefer. The WhatsApp Business solution is an especially useful tool in Africa, which is one of the fastest growing mobile markets. According to the latest Mobile Economy report by the GSM Association (GSMA) trade organisation, Sub-Saharan Africa had 444 million unique mobile subscribers with a 44% penetration rate at the end of 2017. The report forecasts that the penetration rate will reach 50% by the end of 2023, which means that this number is expected to hit over half a billion, while the forecast for unique mobile subscribers across Sub-Saharan Africa is expected to reach 634 million by 2025 – equating to 52% of the population. Further to this, the Independent Communications Authority of South Africa’s (ICASA’s) State of ICT Sector in SA 2019 report shows that South Africa had a smartphone penetration rate of 81.72% at the end of September 2018. Exceed customer expectations and improve customer service with the WhatsApp Business API today. This article was published in partnership with CM.com.