Supersonic has launched new fixed-LTE packages which are available either on a month-to-month basis or on a 24-month contract. The MTN-owned ISP announced three new fixed-LTE packages, each of which includes Anytime and Night Owl data. The base packages offer 120GB, 200GB, and 300GB of total monthly data respectively, and are available as SIM-only deals. Compatible routers include Huawei’s B525, B612 and B618 routers plus ZTE’s MF286 router. Customers can also purchase a compatible router for a flat rate of R1,699 or R69 per month over 24 months. These fixed-LTE SIMs are locked to a single MTN LTE tower, with allowances for home moves and holiday moves only. Below is the pricing and data composition for Supersonic’s new fixed-LTE packages. Supersonic managing director Calvin Collet said that by pairing MTN’s network with the company’s exceptional service offering, the ISP is capable of offering an extremely attractive fibre-like replacement. “With MTN’s quality LTE network coverage sitting at 95% and a multi-billion network upgrade, there is absolutely no reason why those waiting for a fibre connection shouldn’t move to fixed-LTE,” Collet said. “We have been specifically mindful of how the industry is performing and are theming our product development around ‘simple and seamless’.” “To get the best use from your data package be sure to adjust your internet behaviour too,” he said. “Conducting massive mobile phone updates or downloading an entire library of Netflix content shouldn’t be prioritised during the day, but should be scheduled for Night Owl data consumption.” Collett said that Supersonic’s fixed-LTE would offer similar speeds to what you would get from fibre at competitive prices, and he expects great uptake on the new products. “Around 60% of our leads that we get at the moment don’t have fibre coverage, and we have so far not been able to do anything about that,” he said. “Now we will be able to offer them a fibre-like service at a competitive price.” When asked whether an influx of new fixed-LTE users would strain MTN’s 4G network and result in congestion or throttling, Collett said that this solution would be most applicable in areas without fibre coverage. In these areas, he said, the LTE infrastructure is generally underserved and would be able to handle the extra demand placed on the network. “Our view is that instead of throttling or shaping, we will increase capacity in the affected areas,” Collet said. He also said that Supersonic plans to launch more fixed-LTE packages in the future, and it would have a better idea of whether these products would have larger or smaller data allotments following the commercial launch of its first three fixed-LTE plans. MTN’s wholesale fixed-LTE product will also be available to other ISPs, with Supersonic being the first provider in South Africa to offer these fixed-LTE packages to consumers.