Perhaps you’re looking to trade-in, sell or simply return your iPhone to its former glory, and have been meaning to have that cracked screen sorted out. You’ve been putting it off because you suspect it will cost a bomb, and quite honestly, who can manage without their phone for any longer than a day? The good news is that Apple Premium Reseller and Apple Authorized Service Provider Digicape provides a cost-effective, same day* repair service, should you want to spruce up your phone in a hurry. Previously, authorised resellers were unable to repair screens, and could only replace the entire device. Unauthorised centres could offer relatively affordable screen repairs – however this came at a far greater cost in the form of the device’s warranty, which was automatically voided. “Screen repairs from unauthorised centres also offer no guarantee that water-resistant devices will continue to be protected against liquid infiltration, and if the replacement screen is inadequately sealed the device can become damaged, says Mark Parsons, Technical Director at Digicape. “In addition, non-genuine Apple parts put the device at far greater risk of malfunction. Your worries are over. “For those looking to sell, trade-in, or even just restore their iPhone to its former glory, we offer a competitively-priced repair service, says Parsons. “This ensures your device doesn’t lose its warranty (subject to it still being within the validity period), and the device’s trade-in/resale value is retained. “Customers simply need to visit one of Digicape’s Authorised Service Centres and book their device in before 15h00. Their phones are generally returned to them that same day*, says Mark Parsons, Technical Director at Digicape. “We understand that these devices are integral to the day-to-day running of our customer’s lives, and so it was critical for us to offer an extremely swift service.” The service gives users peace of mind knowing that their screens are replaced with a genuine Apple part, and in adherence with the Apple-guaranteed process – all at a fraction of the cost of a replacement device. Available for iPhone 6 and newer models. For more information, visit www.digicape.co.za *Subject to availability This article was published in partnership with Digicape.