As a two -tier, value-added Distributor, Allscan Trading (PTY) Ltd was successful in securing the distributing rights for Fujitsu scanners. “We are extremely excited to be part of the Fujitsu family. At 50+% market share worldwide the quality and durability of the brand speaks for itself and fits perfectly into the Allscan strategy of ensuring value-add to our resellers and end-users. As a distributor we are dependent on the manufacturer for the level of success we have in supporting the brand name. With Fujitsu PFU in our product offering it makes it easy for us to increase our support to the market,” said Chris Botha MD at Allscan Trading. Allscan Trading (PTY) Ltd is a privately-owned distribution company specialising in the document imaging industry. They are considered experts in the document management industry and due to their extensive skills and experience they can offer their customers every possible service related imagine. Allscan is committed to being the “First Choice Supplier” for the Fujitsu range of scanners through service excellence, experience and product knowledge. Their emphasis is on being a responsible, innovative business partner providing value-added services to their resellers. Their focus is on building sound long-term, mutually-beneficial relationships based on trust and respect, with both resellers and suppliers. The hand-picked resellers that understand Document Imaging have the skills and capacity to successfully implement sustainable solutions so that there is representation in all silos within both the Private and Public sectors. Allscan Trading’s sister company Imagine Technical Services was appointed ASP and all technicians are trained in the Fujitsu range of scanners. PFU EMEA Limited a specialist company within the Fujitsu family offers the widest range of document scanners available on the market today. With a global market share of over 50%, they have scanners for a wide array of applications ranging from their mobile ScanSnap iX100 for community and remote workers to their fi-7160 that is highly respected within Healthcare to their network ready N7100, all the way through to production-level scanners for high-volume scan applications such as the fi-7700/fi-7800 and fi-7900. These impressive machines are capable of scanning over 2 pages per second (140ppm) and 120,000 sheets per day, easily. The key benefit in dealing with a tried and tested brand like Fujitsu, is that they have proven technological advancements with core image scanning technology and a proven track record of providing reliable, high-quality devices which have been safely manufactured according to the highest industry standards in manufacturing. With the implementation of the POPI Act and compliance thereto becoming a reality, together with the copious amounts of paper still to be scanned, the South African market is increasingly demanding document management solutions that can meet the requirement of compliance and performance. Fujitsu document scanners are the gold standard in both instances. The ScanSnap range of personal productivity scanners take the complications out of document imaging with one-touch intuitive ease of use and have now passed the 5 million sales mark globally! The range allows users to scan everyday documents and seamlessly link to cloud accounts, smart devices, and applications. Perfect for home and small business environments, the ScanSnap family of scanners brings duplex multisheet scanning to everyone, combining performance and affordability in a compact size along with a host of productivity enhancing bundled software. Recently launched is a new addition to the popular ScanSnap family: the iX1500. Enabling smarter ways of working and productivity gains for individuals and small teams, the ScanSnap iX1500 features one-touch technology that lets users carry out pre-programmed scans with just the touch of a button. The SP models are a versatile entry point into professional document management, offering intuitive and dependable scanning routines, a compact and easy to use design, reliable performance and bundled with an efficient document scanning software suite. Organisations of all sizes can benefit from the award-winning Fujitsu fi Series scanner products. Delivering an unbeatable combination of reliability, flexibility, affordability and performance these scanners range in speeds from 20-135 colour pages per minute. The SP scanners offer a variety of innovative features such as automated image clean-up, ultrasonic double-feed detection and centralised administration. Additionally they include PaperStream IP and PaperStream Capture; best-in-class scanner driver and image capturing/processing software. Fujitsu scanners have a well deserved reputation for being the most reliable and hard-wearing devices on the market. With the growing demand for document imaging solutions and an increase in business dependency on scanning and managing documents electronically, the Assurance Program provides the peace of mind and business continuity that customers demand. As a channel-centric organisation, PFU have made a significant investment to offer their partners a range of sales enablement tools to help them better understand and position the scan opportunity to their bases and adapt to the challenges of digitalisation. Their award-winning Imaging Channel Program allows access to evaluation and discounted demonstration models, product toolkits, the ability to co-brand material, vertically aligned and solution focussed webinars, latest details on promotions as well as scanner configurator tools and training modules to help upskill staff. Additionally, an impressive Imaging Rewards scheme enables partners to earn points for their sales and engagement which can be exchanged for prizes, rebate, stock and more. Digital transformation brings new opportunities for document imaging and handling. This together with the compliance requirements of the POPI Act means that there is now a clear distinction in (and demand for) high-end, everyday scanning – in which much more complex scanning and capture scenarios are involved. High volumes of sensitive documents, need to be captured at significantly higher speeds and need to be handled and stored correctly for future recall, data extraction and processing, in a safe and efficient manner without any loss or distortion of critical data. This process can only be achieved with a dedicated document scanner with specialised software. This is where PFU – a Fujitsu company – has a clear advantage with over 36 years’ experience in the scanner business and still the market leader. “Anyone can make a scanner but only Fujitsu scanners offers reliability, quality, efficiency and low total cost of ownership with the best capture technology available, combine this with our impressive enablement platforms, this is why we still remain the world’s number 1 document scanner manufacturer,” said Fujitsu.