ESET –  a global leader in information security – has been named as the only Challenger in the 2019 Gartner Magic Quadrant for Endpoint Protection Platorms* two years in a row. ESET was evaluated based on its ability to execute and its completeness of vision. ESET believes this placement reflects its consistent competence in offering maximum protection for enterprises. “In our view, to be named the only challenger in the Gartner Magic Quadrant last year was a huge achievement for ESET; to have received the recognition for a second year running proves our determination to continue to deliver the best in endpoint protection, detection and response to enterprises,” commented Ignacio Sbampato, chief business officer at ESET. “We are proud of our approach based on advanced research and insights to develop solutions that keep organizations protected in a consistent and comprehensive manner, and we believe our placement is a reflection of our continued growth as global player in the information security realm.” Sbampato continues, “Since last year ESET has strengthened its enterprise offering with ESET Enterprise Inspector, an Endpoint Detection and Response solution, and ESET Dynamic Threat Defence, a cloud-based sandbox, which provides a complete Endpoint Protection Platform to its enterprise customers around the world. This is part of ESET’s strategy to expand its presence in the enterprise segment.” ESET believes of its positioning as a Challenger for the second year validates its ability to provide an easy-to-use, comprehensive and consistent endpoint protection product and is reflective of its increasing market share in all crucial segments for ESET, from Enterprise, SMB to Consumer. ESET prides itself on its high detection and small footprint; quality of customer service offering and believes its placement in the Gartner Magic Quadrant highlights its dedication to the highest possible service for all ESET clients. According to Gartner’s IT Glossary,** “Gartner Magic Quadrants offer visual snapshots, in-depth analysis and actionable advice that provide insight into a market’s direction, maturity and participants. Magic Quadrants compare vendors based on Gartner’s standard criteria and methodology. Each report comes with a Magic Quadrant graphic that depicts a market using a two-dimensional matrix that evaluates vendors based on their completeness of vision and ability to execute.” Get your complimentary copy of the Gartner report now and view ESET’s placement in the Magic Quadrant: https://www.eset.com/int/business/gartner-epp-mq-2019/. *Source: Gartner, “Magic Quadrant for Endpoint Protection Platforms,” Peter Firstbrook, Dionisio Zumerle, Prateek Bhajanka, Lawrence Pingree, Paul Webber, 20 August 2019. ** Source: Gartner IT Glossary, “Magic Quadrant,” 22 August 2019. https://www.gartner.com/it-glossary/magic-quadrant. Gartner Disclaimer: Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designations. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner’s research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. This article was published in partnership with ESET.