Apple announced this week that it will launch its streaming service, Apple TV+, on 1 November. Apple TV+ will be available in scores of countries – including South Africa – and will be priced at $4.99 per month. But will you drop Netflix for Apple TV+? The answer is a strong no. First up are the thoughts of financial analysts, including those from Bank of America Merrill Lynch. The bank’s analysts stated that Netflix has a huge content advantage over Apple TV+, and that Apple’s streaming service in its current format is not likely to disrupt Netflix. Apple TV+ will feature 9 titles at launch. By comparison, Netflix’s South African content library features over 3,100 movies and 1,380 series. “We see Apple TV+ as likely to be hit-driven in the near term, with subscribers turning it on and off based on whether a series gains mainstream appeal,” said Bank of America Merrill Lynch. “Until Apple’s content library gains scale to compare to Netflix or Amazon, it is likely as a nice-to-have for Apple device users and no substitute for Netflix’s large catalogue of licensed content and originals.” Secondly, South Africans who have been using Netflix for the past three years are not going to simply drop the service. The familiarity of the platform and its wide array of shows means Apple will have to deliver a huge bouquet of compelling content to pull new users in. There is no reason that users will not subscribe to Netflix and Apple TV+, however. At $4.99, Apple TV+ works out to around R75 per month. It must also be noted that users who buy a new iPad, iPhone, Apple TV, or Apple Mac will receive one year of Apple TV+ for free. A more pressing matter to consider, however, is Disney’s new streaming service – set to launch in the US on 12 November. Called Disney+, the streaming service will offer series and movies from the Disney, Star Wars, and Marvel universes – making it a must-have for fans. The service will start at $6.99, and will also include content from Pixar and National Geographic. Even more appealing is the Disney+ bundle deal for $12.99 per month, which includes a subscription to Disney+, Hulu, and ESPN+. The combination of movie and series on-demand along with live sports streaming will make Disney+ a no-brainer purchase for many. Disney’s streaming service therefore poses a much bigger risk to Netflix than Apple TV+ does in the markets where it will launch. South Africa is not one of these markets, however, and while South Africans with a VPN may test the service, its lack of “legal” availability will render it irrelevant to many.