Businesses are embracing digital transformation (DT) to ensure their position in the fourth industrial revolution. But for many, it is not without concerns. The biggest of these concerns are security and protection of information. Businesses are apprehensive over how to adequately protect their customers’ and their own information, and how they demonstrate this protection. The transformation journey is, however, never a one size fits all scenario. According to Microsoft, the notion of executing a massive transformation in a single move can also seem insurmountable, but when you think about it as a journey – with incremental steps towards a long-term goal – it becomes a much less daunting proposition. The impact of DT permeates from deskbound to field and front-office workers across every industry. It is highly pervasive and, if leveraged and used correctly, can impact every person, whether they use the tools or not. It can be used to perform usual productivity tasks, or to transform how a business operates, and how employees engage and interact with each other and their customers. “Some are embracing the DT journey and feel excited about it, and we see organisations reaping real, tangible rewards,” said Westcon-Comstor. “The positive disruptions are truly amazing, but we also acknowledge that for some, there are legitimate concerns about getting DT right.” The true purpose of digital transformation, regardless of the industry, is to find new ways to drive constant value generation. To generate real value, businesses need better solutions to connect employees and customers. The modern work environment is ‘always on, always accessible, and available from anywhere’. Whether an individual is at home or at work, local or abroad, the modern work environment allows them to connect with their teams across a variety of mediums, such as video calls, shared whiteboard drawings, and multi-user document co-authoring in near real time. It allows for unprecedented access to information, one source of truth with versioning history, and the ability to search for documents that have already been created. It also increases employee engagement and effectiveness by connecting employees from different parts of the organisation, as collaboration is instantaneous. Further to this, IT teams can assess the state of their security and respond quickly when needed to keep users productive and focused on creation through security management consoles that share intelligence through intuitive interfaces. For distributors, the benefits of digital are endless, and some of the most cutting-edge developments come from this exciting sector. But everyone doesn’t have to go all-in to see those benefits; you just need the right partner for your distribution business to start creating real value. Weston-Comstor, a leading international distributor of business technology from the world’s leading vendors, offers Microsoft services which are built on a foundation of trust and security. Microsoft provides security controls and capabilities to help protect data and applications. They help ensure that customers’ information is protected not only where it is stored, but also on devices from where it is accessed (ie. mobile devices, tablets, remote locations). The Azure Active Directory, which is a cloud-based identity and access management service, helps employee’s sign in and access resources in: The embedded secure foundation and integrated toolsets allow teams to focus on getting the work done, providing peace of mind for employers knowing that their company data is safe, anywhere, and on any device. Such transparency speeds business results, enhances quality of output, and reduces confusion and duplicative work, leading to a more successful organisation. Westcon-Comstor strives to drive and support their partners through their digital transformation journey. They specialise in the technologies essential to every business: security, collaboration, infrastructure, and data centre. And, translate their solutions into real value through our unrivalled expertise in global deployment, digital distribution and services. To find out more, visit the Westcon-Comstor website. This article was published in partnership with Westcon-Comstor.