Here is a list of innovative, South African online companies in various industries, which need to be watched in 2019. Industries and innovative company platforms are listed below. SA Shares is an exciting new platform for first-time and seasoned investors looking to learn about and invest in JSE- listed shares. It’s easy to use and provides a wealth of information to help you make informed decisions. Stock Market College – a stock market learning academy in Africa – enrols arounds 500 new students every month. Key to their success is their in-depth forex and stock market trading course, which is easy to grasp and apply. They provide online support and access to a team of dedicated mentors. QuickTrade has revolutionised the African online trading industry through its advanced 5 trading platform. It has more than 15,000 forex and share traders and is growing at an exponential rate. You can create a free account in minutes and trade from the device of your choice. Forex Trading Africa provides an easy and convenient trading platform, and allows you to choose the best forex platform for your level of expertise. This start-up company is disrupting the online document signing industry in Africa.  You can complete any form in your browser with the Drag & Drop feature within seconds. The user- friendly field detection facility makes it easy to complete, sign and submit any e-Signing form. This ICT powerhouse is defined as one of the most innovative and client-centric providers in the country. With the most complete offering of IT, Internet and Voice under one roof, companies get total accountability and simplicity of service. Their partners consistently rate their customer service a 4.8/5, making them the most- and best-rated business provider in SA. This professional Payroll, HR and Time & Attendance Software Company adds value to businesses via the application of a client-oriented, user-empowerment approach. With the best technological resources available, PayDay is on the frontier of cutting-edge technology. FMJ Financial Services are one of the leading tax practitioners and consultants in South Africa specialising in all aspects related to INDIVIDUAL tax. They tailor your quote according to your unique profile, and their online content hub is a source for in-depth personal tax help. Businesses4Sale the newest and most exciting online business broking tool in South Africa, connecting people looking to buy a business and people selling their business. Its buy-and-sell platform is easy to navigate and the profile of businesses for sale on Business4Sale is broad and varied. BebedeParis is an international online baby gift service, which combines exclusive baby gifts with customer service excellence. Quality luxury gift hampers and new-born baby layettes are delivered to new parents nationwide. What makes the service unique is the option to “build your own hamper” and get it delivered by a porter. Their packages include a wide range of support services to new parents. Topwatch is the leading South African pre-owned luxury watch retailer, that is currently expanding into Africa. Since partnering with the global watch leader thewatchbox.com, Topwatch now offers the most authentic, certified preowned, warranty-backed watches on the continent, including Rolex, Tag Heuer, and Panerai. SEOPros is one of the leading search engine optimisation (SEO) companies in Southern Africa with a core focus on helping businesses get rank on Google and other search engines’ first page. The company recently expanded its services to Dubai, Mauritius and Luxembourg due to massive demand for their expertise. Hailed as the “TripAdvisor” of cosmetic surgery, Plastic Surgery Review has revolutionised the way people select and interact with cosmetic surgeons. Past patient reviews, ratings, “before and after” photos, videos and more guide users in both their surgeon, and procedure choices. Customer experience consultancy Interact RDT offers a unique scientific approach to experience design, allowing their clients to quantify their customer experience and create real organisational change, whilst driving value for their customers. Promovate makes ordering promotional gifts online as easy as ordering fast food. This dynamic start-up company has perfected the way individuals and corporations order gifts online and is rapidly replacing the need to go shopping for them at stores. Promovate also offers a free logo redraw and artwork layout service, saving you time and money. Newspaper Advertising is a online print platform showcasing all newspapers and magazines to advertise in. Book and place an advert directly with a dedicated and experienced ad team. All advertisement placements include free ad designs and includes a dedicated advertising accounts manager for every business. Moafrika Tours has been taking international tourists to famous destinations in Africa for more than two decades. It’s the leading day tour operator in South Africa offering an array of sightseeing trips to places like Soweto, Johannesburg, Cape Town and the Pilanesberg Game Reserve. Moafrika Tours is also popular for personalised long-stay tours to the Kruger National Park, and other famous national parks in Southern Africa. Tydon African Safaris is a well renowned, world-class safari group which gives their guests an exciting and unforgettable African wildlife adventure, and a taste of great South African hospitality. They cater for any traveller seeking a luxurious venturesome safari and offer personalised attendance. BusTravel Iceland, a day tour operator founded in 1960, has now set up office to attract more South African visitors to Iceland. They specialise in day trips to a number of popular destinations in Iceland including The Golden Circle Tour, Snæfellsnes, The Glacier Lagoon, and much more. Not far behind their rival Bustravel, IG tours has also followed suite to open a virtual office in South Africa to serve the ever-growing tourism market for South Africans to Iceland. Iceland Guided Tours offers small group tours and private tours to the most famous sights in Iceland, along with special excursions and trips for cruise ship passengers. Newcomer on the block Mashalas Tours is Level 1 BEE travel operator taking the local travel industry by storm. They offer a range of tours in and around Gauteng and have expanded their offerings to other provinces in South Africa, the last 6 months. All tours can conveniently be booked and paid online. With more than 25 years’ experience, 1,000’s of happy clients, and 100’s of 5-star TripAdvisor reviews, Southern Circle is still one of the go to online platforms when booking tours in South Africa. With personal attention to each client, they tailor the excursion to your exact needs and budget. Kruger Wildlife Safaris is a South-African-based safari and travel company, specialising in small group safaris to several top-rated destinations around Southern Africa, including the renowned, Kruger National Park. With over 20 years of travel experience, these tailor-made safaris give guests peace of mind by including essentials like accommodation, game drives and even select meals in the package price. This platform has taken out the guess work when trying to book any professional contractor from a plumber, builder or a qualified engineer in South Africa. They only have verified every contractor on their platforms giving complete peace of mind to its platform users. CopiersAfrica has disrupted the office automation industry through their personal turnkey approach to every business. They offer easy financing and monthly rentals on business solutions. They also stock the biggest Copier (new and refurbished), PBX brands and has a nationwide support network for all their clients. Search All Photographers is the biggest online photography search platform in Africa. The company has set its sight on global domination with the aim being to list every reputable photographer in the world on the site. It’s like Facebook for photographers, offering customers and photographers the ideal online space to connect and subscribe to services. Commercial People is an exciting up and coming commercial property portal in South Africa that offers real estate agents a free-to-list platform to host their commercial properties. On Commercial People you’ll be able to choose from a series of offices, co-working space, industrial warehouses and more to lease or purchase. Residential People is an emerging South African property portal that gives real estate agents the chance to list their properties free of charge. On Residential People agents can use state-of-the-art marketing tools such as automated PDF, Microsite and Video software to enhance and market their listings even further.  This article was published in partnership with Kruger Bookings.