Wits Business School (WBS) has developed a reputation for excellence over fifty years, launching the careers of many business leaders. WBS offers a variety of courses designed to empower its students to drive business in South Africa, boosting their career prospects while simultaneously helping to build the country’s economy. One such course is its Postgraduate Diploma in Management (PDM) which is designed to transition young graduates into the real world of business management. The PDM focuses on applying modern business knowledge and insights to real life scenarios. Classroom learning means the opportunity for stimulating discussions and debate, allowing for the interrogation of a variety of viewpoints and management concepts. Students choose one of two streams: Business Administration or Human Resources. A key part of the programme is a two-month internship which gives students the opportunity to work in, and experience, a real-world business environment. This is in line with WBS’s vision, which is to “deliver leaders who can shape the future of Africa.” The PDM is backed by some of South Africa’s leading organisations, including banks, financial services companies, healthcare enterprises, pharmaceuticals, and marketing companies. The opportunity to gain ‘on the ground’ work experience provides students with additional skills and experience that are not available from pure academic work – setting them apart as prime candidates for high-powered jobs and leadership positions in the future. The PDM is a one-year, full-time programme that offers students a grounding in the following five areas: In the final quarter, students choose five elective courses. Three of these courses are automatically allocated, depending on whether the Business Administration or Human Resources stream is chosen, while the student is free to choose the remaining two according to their strengths and interests. One of the key focuses of the programme is to expose students to innovative and creative ways of thinking about managing a business. As technology and business strategies continue to develop in tandem, it is crucial that future managers are privy to the latest business knowledge and tools – both of which are key aspects of the PDM curriculum. To qualify for the PDM, applicants need a Bachelor’s degree, as well as either a minimum of 55% for matric Mathematics or 70% in Mathematical Literacy. Applicants will also need to perform to an acceptable level on the Wits Business School admission test.  No prior work experience is necessary. Applicants will also need to provide copies of all academic transcripts and degree certificates, as well as a SAQA certificate for foreign qualifications. To apply, please complete the online application here. This article was published in partnership with Wits Business School.