Bank Zero, TymeBank, and Discovery Bank aim to take away customers from the big banks in 2019. To do this, they are focusing on a range of gripes customers have with their existing banks – including bank charges. Transaction costs and monthly service fees can cost South Africans several hundred rand per month, and certain banks go so far as to charge for basic services like sending an email. Knowing which banks offer the best deals can therefore save you serious money over the course of a year. To see how local banks compare when it comes to fees, we conducted a price comparison using several accounts below. An FNB Premier Cheque Account is available to customers who earn between R300,000 and R749,999 per year. The Premier Cheque Account comes in three options: Pay-As-You-Use, Unlimited, and Bundled. Standard Bank’s Prestige Cheque Account is available to customers who earn at least R25,000 per month. It costs R205 per month to use their bundle option, which includes a variety of benefits such as unlimited debit orders, electronic account payments, inter-account payments, purchases, and SMS notifications. Also included in this cost is up to R10,000 Standard Bank ATM cash withdrawals, up to three Standard Bank ATM cash deposits, and free emailed monthly statements, cash withdrawals at certain retailers, and online banking. Alternatively, you can use their pay-as-you-transact offer, which will cost a minimum of R110 per month, as well as a R14.50 card fee. Capitec’s Global One Account is the transactional account offered by Capitec and allows customers to use a Capitec debit or credit card. It is only offered as a pay-as-you-transact product. The Absa Premium Banking Account is available to customers who earn a minimum income of R25,000 per month. In its bundled form it costs R179 per month, and offers benefits such as a number of free withdrawals and deposits, as well as additional features like as 50% off Nu Metro movie tickets. Nedbank’s Savvy bundle costs R200 and includes options such as a Platinum cheque or credit card, unlimited transactions, and an overdraft facility. TymeBank is the first of South Africa’s three big digital banks to unveil its pricing. Bank Zero and Discovery Bank are yet to launch their pricing structures.