Moving from a legacy PBX to a Cloud PBX can be quite a task and entails some risk. However, the longer you keep your current on-premise PBX system, the greater the associated risks and costs. Outages and unplanned downtime; high upgrade and maintenance costs; inability to source replacement components; outdated functionality; drain on in-house resources; and compromised security are all factors to consider when changing your current communication system. The secret to a successful cloud migration is as simple as partnering the right provider. A key component of ensuring that a company’s migration is indeed successful requires an understanding of the current PBX setup i.e. call flows, ring groups, voicemail to email options and the number of rings before a call is forwarded to another extension, to name a few. Whilst these seem like easy assumptions, they are key to ensuring a successful deployment and positive user experience. User education around the new system is equally important and companies would need to ensure that this is included as part of their migration plan. Most companies are looking to achieve two main objectives when reviewing moving to the cloud, namely cost savings and management of the PBX system. Scalability, security and redundancy are additional benefits that come with choosing the right provider. Owning and managing our infrastructure allows for us to seamlessly transition a company’s traditional voice environment into a secure, reliable and flexible Cloud PBX ecosystem. Moving your voice into our cloud inherently includes several security benefits simply due to the nature of our core network architecture. Our Cloud PBX is protected by industry-leading encryption and Session Border Controllers, to ensure that your data and calls reside within the safety of our network. CipherWave’s Cloud PBX also accommodates for companies which require access for mobile users, using our mobile application. Users can log in to our platform and effectively take their desk phones with them wherever they go. Meticulous project management principles coupled with years of experience within the industry is our largest shared asset with our customers when transitioning to our cloud. Whether your company is based in the middle of the hustle and bustle of trendy Johannesburg or a 2-man satellite office at the end of windy Port Elizabeth, we are able to bring you online fast, securely and efficiently. Single point of contact. Most legacy communication systems involve multiple solutions provided by different suppliers, which can have a negative impact on productivity and the overall effectiveness of a company. With a Cloud PBX, you can save on time and cost by consolidating your supplier relationships. Scalability. Traditional on-premise PBX systems are too rigid to allow for expansion or growth. When moving offices, opening new branches, bringing on additional employees, your communication system needs to be agile and adaptable. However, traditional on-premise PBX systems can be slow, labour intensive and expensive. A Cloud PBX allows your company to scale quickly and easily. Easily add new features. Communication technology is rapidly changing and so are the expectations of your employees and customers. With traditional on-premise PBX systems, some basic features, such as call forwarding, are either not possible, extremely expensive or hardware dependant. The flexibility of a Cloud PBX makes it easy to deploy a full range of rich features. Visibility. Gaining insights into your on-premise PBX system can be time-consuming and cumbersome. On the other hand, the transparency you get from cloud communications allows you to make better informed business decisions. Business Continuity. Traditional on-premise PBX systems are not made to continue functioning in the event of an outage. Where Cloud PBX systems, in contrast, offer high availability, significantly reducing downtime. This article was published in partnership with Cipherwave.