Avengers: Endgame is set to be one of the biggest cinematic events in modern history. This is not an exaggeration: Endgame is the culmination point of something that started over 10 years ago when Iron Man was released in 2008. The MCU spans numerous movies, including Black Panther, Thor and Spider-Man. They stand alone in their stories, but they share the same universe. We’ve picked five MCU movies you can stream online on DStv Now that will help make things clearer for Endgame, which is hitting our cinemas now. Thanos, the big bad guy of the Endgame saga, is first shown in a clip hidden in the end credits of The Avengers. But Guardians of the Galaxy introduced him more properly as part of the storyline. The second Guardians movie really galvanises some of those plotlines, such as the relationship between his two incredibly lethal daughters who may help lead to his downfall. Watch it now » It’s totally worth watching each of the three Thor films, just because he’s such a cool character. But if you don’t have time for all that, Thor: Ragnarok is the one to see. It’s very quirky for a superhero movie and has a lot of fun, but also brings some important storylines to conclusions that influence events in Infinity War and Endgame. And the Hulk. It has the Hulk. Who doesn’t want to see the Hulk? Watch it now » The main gist of Thanos’ plan involves collecting a set of infinity stones – powerful gems that can bend the forces of reality. One of these gems resides in the head of J.A.R.V.I.S., one of the superhero characters. But the only place on Earth with the technology to do anything about this is the secluded but advanced nation of Wakanda, also the home of the Black Panther. He and Wakanda play a big role in the events around Thanos’ plan, so Black Panther is a must-see. Watch it now » Since the events of Avengers: Infinity War, there’s been a lot of speculation on how Thanos could be stopped. The big guns of Iron Man, Thor and other heavyweights might not be enough, so fans have been guessing around more exotic choices. One of these is Ant-Man, the superhero capable of becoming very big and also shrink right down to the quantum level, something explored a lot in his second movie, Ant-Man and Wasp. Watch it now »  Endgame is actually the second part of a massive story, the first part taking place in Avengers: Infinity War. You can ignore every other movie on this list and still watch Endgame, although with a little confusion. But without Infinity War a lot of things just won’t make sense, nor will you experience the wicked cliffhanger that has the world buzzing about Endgame’s arrival. Watch it now » If you’d rather watch it in bed (who wouldn’t?) then get the DStv Now app for Apple or Android, install the app on your phone or tablet, log in and start watching. Get DStv Now » This article was published in partnership with DStv Now.