By Emile Biagio, CTO for Sintrex Most of us like bananas, right? We’re privileged to have access to bananas in areas where they do not grow naturally. We even have the luxury of choosing how many we want to buy and we can hand-pick them from hundreds on display! But why do you buy bananas? Do you just buy for the sake of having a fruit snack? Are you making a fruit salad or perhaps banana bread? Do you buy them because they’re on sale and look REALLY good? And because they’re on sale, “let’s buy more and decide what to do with them after the purchase!” (Sounds like my wife…) Have you noticed that if you purposely buy bananas for a specific reason, then you become very selective in your purchasing decision? Generally we would shop for ripe and maybe organic bananas to make really nice banana bread. Anything other than ripe really will not do. Making the ideal banana bread requires a good recipe, some additional ingredients and some know-how. We could opt to purchase a pre-made banana bread, but we know that some people REALLY know how to make an excellent banana bread, so much so that you might ask them to make it for you! So what? So, what if I told you that the banana is your product and the banana bread is your required output? This would mean the additional ingredients, recipe and baker make up the services provided to get to the required output. I use this metaphor to illustrate to many organisations that when they start looking at service companies to provide services, they should find someone that can provide them with the required output! Most organisations – especially in IT – will use tech experts to review service companies and (as I’ve heard before) ask to “lift their skirts” and reveal components that make up the service offering…. i.e. “lift your skirts and show us your bananas, baker!” Mmmm, this metaphor just took a turn down the wrong path… Let’s refocus! Don’t fall into the trap of evaluating products (bananas) when you know what you want as a service! Contract for the required output and let the service provider control the rest! This article was published in partnership with Sintrex.