The Samsung Galaxy S10 is a powerful device which features impressive hardware specifications. This hardware not only provides a fast and rewarding user experience, but forms the foundation of the Galaxy S10’s range of intelligent features. A big concern for smartphone users is how long their device lasts on a single charge – a concern S10 owners will not have to worry about. The S10+, for example, has a 4,100mAh battery installed which works in combination with Samsung’s Intelligent Performance Enhancer system to optimise power usage. The system identifies your mobile usage habits and optimises the way you use the smartphone. This includes recognising the apps you frequently use and preloading them for faster launch times. Power-usage optimisations are further enhanced with Bixby, Samsung’s smart assistant software, which is loaded on the Galaxy S10e, S10, and S10+. Bixby adapts to a user’s lifestyle and will perform functions such as reducing screen brightness and blue light emission at night, along with turning the device’s Night Mode on. It will turn off unnecessary apps if you fall asleep without charging your phone, too, ensuring your S10’s battery life is preserved come the morning. Samsung’s intelligent functionality in the S10 extends beyond the battery to the smartphone’s camera and provides an array of clever features. First up is Bixby Vision, which lets users point their smartphone camera at an object and have it identified. This intelligence goes a step further when it comes to text and Bixby Vision will translate the words you are seeing. Bad photos are also a thing of the past with the Galaxy S10’s intelligent camera features. Samsung has built a Neural Processing Unit into its new smartphones which helps the devices recognise scenes and environments – automatically enhancing your shots. Additionally, the Galaxy S10e, S10, and S10+ will recommend the best ways to compose professional-looking photos by providing suggestions based on a library of over 100 million high-quality photos. Combine this with the incredible camera system on the Galaxy S10+ – a 12MP + 16MP + 12MP combo on the rear, and a 10MP + 8MP system on the front – and every photo you take will be a keeper. The Galaxy S10 is Samsung’s smartest phone to date, truly putting the “smart” in smartphone. This article was published in partnership with MyBroadband.