Huawei recently released the P30 Pro – a powerful flagship smartphone that offers a wide variety of features. In fact, there are so many features jam-packed into the P30 Pro that trying to make the most of the latest flagship Huawei smartphone can prove to be an overwhelming experience. That’s why we’ve come up with these 10 important things that you should know about the P30 Pro. The P30 Pro sports an amazing camera with specs that truly stand out from the competition. Key to this is its triple-lens Leica camera system, which also utilises a fourth TOF camera for superior focus and image stabilisation. This camera system makes the Huawei P30 Pro the highest ranked smartphone on DxOMark’s mobile camera rankings, with a score of 112. The P30 Pro also sports a remarkable 32MP front camera, ensuring that you capture nothing but the best selfies. The Huawei P30 Pro camera system specifications are below. Not only does it have the best smartphone camera ever; the P30 Pro offers an incredible 50x digital “super zoom” – which utilises 10x hybrid zoom and 5x optical zoom to let users zoom into distant objects that are barely visible to the human eye. This feature is an example of significant innovation by Huawei – a trend that has become particularly common in recent years. The Huawei P30 Pro uses AI in various ways to improve user experience. One example of this is present in its one touch AI video editor. This software can automatically implement dramatic filters, speed increases and decreases, and even unique background music into a video – all with one touch by the user. Another example of the P30 Pro’s AI capabilities is visible when taking photographs. the P30 Pro’s Leica camera system can automatically adjust the colour and brightness of your photograph according to the environmental factors at play. The P30 Pro truly embodies modern design trends, offering users a smartphone that looks as good as it operates under the hood. It sports a curved 6.47-inch OLED display, as well as a bezel-less design. Just by looking at it, it becomes evident that the P30 Pro is nothing short of a top-end, flagship smartphone. The Huawei P30 Pro has the hardware to back up awesome features like its camera and biometric. It sports a remarkable 8GB RAM and up to 512GB storage. You can also add up to 256GB storage space thanks to its NanoSD port. The P30 Pro uses a powerful HiSilicon Kirin 980 processor that runs its Android 9.0 operating system without breaking a sweat. Such powerful performance and innovative features as those previously mentioned consume a lot of battery power. This may worry some users, who question whether the smartphone will see its battery drained too quickly. This, however, is not the case with the P30 Pro – thanks in large part to the its high-capacity 4,200 mAh battery. It’s not only photographs that benefit from the P30 Pro’s camera system. In fact, the P30 Pro allows users to take great videos, too. Beyond having access to the powerful 3-lens camera system, users can use Huawei’s dual-view recording functionality to take an ultra-wide video clip side-by-side with a zoom shot. This feature is yet another example of Huawei’s innovative disruption of the smartphone market. The P30 Pro lets you choose between four breathtaking colour options: The P30 Pro offers users a new in-screen optical fingerprint sensor system that allows you to unlock your phone with ease. Previously, fingerprint sensors were usually placed on areas of the smartphone other than the display itself – now, however, due to its integration within the screen, the fingerprint sensor doesn’t take away from the space present on the smartphone. Considering the wealth of powerful features offered by the P30 Pro, and given the pricing trends of flagship smartphones in the past year or two, one would not be surprised to see the P30 Pro cost upwards of R30,000. However, thanks to Huawei’s tendency to undercut market pricing aggressively, you can get your hands on the P30 Pro for a recommended retail price of just R16,499. This article was published in partnership with Huawei.