Business organisation Sakeliga will launch legal action in a bid to stop state-owned enterprises – including Eskom – from implementing race-based qualification requirements for contractors and tenders. The organisation will request “Eskom, the Minister of Finance, and the Minister of Public Enterprises” to suspend race-based pre-qualification requirements at Eskom, pending the outcome of Sakeliga’s court case. “Sakeliga’s decision to pursue the court case, challenging the legality of SOEs’ pre-emptive disqualification of contractors based on race, comes especially in light of the electricity crisis in South Africa,” said Sakeliga. Sakeliga CEO Piet le Roux said Eskom’s race-based disqualification of contractors is “unreasonably limiting the pool from which it could draw expertise”. This comes at a time when Eskom is in dire straits financially and has implemented extensive load-shedding this year due to its inability to meet electricity demands in South Africa. The lack of power capacity is said to be the result of poor maintenance at Eskom’s power stations and their associated infrastructure – along with the poor build quality of new power stations such as Kusile and Medupi. “It has come to our attention that Eskom has increasingly been setting race-based pre-qualification criteria in its tender documents. Today, businesses who are not 51% black-owned are frequently pre-emptively disqualified from even being considered for award of a tender,” said le Roux. “By disqualifying contractors based on race, Eskom now precludes electricity consumers in South Africa from the full range of cost-effective expertise available on the market.” Le Roux stated that the qualification criteria used by SOEs are based on the Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act. “The regulations were promulgated in 2017 by then Minister of Finance Pravin Gordhan. We objected to these regulations at the time,” said Le Roux. The Gauteng High Court dismissed this application in November 2018, but Sakeliga will now appeal the case. It added that the regulations are “ultra vires and unconstitutional” as they allow SOEs to “set pre-qualification criteria beyond the criteria for tender validity”. Le Roux said Eskom is not the only SOE in crisis and its court case will “attempt to allow all players at the table, instead of having some precluded from contributing because of their race”. The court action follows Eskom’s downward spiral in recent years, which has left it with a debt burden of over R400 billion. It also implemented extensive load-shedding in South Africa in March, leaving many homes and businesses without power for several hours each day. Despite this, Eskom has continued to raise electricity prices. From 2007 to 2017, electricity tariffs increased by 333% – and this percentage is expected to rise to 490% by 2021. Compounding matters is that Eskom is being run by a “bunch of amateurs”, according to experts. Energy expert Ted Blom said the current Eskom board has been in place for over a year, but the situation at the power utility is now worse than under the previous corrupt board. “This board is ineffective, they do not have the necessary experience and the chairman is conflicted,” said Blom.