We are in an age of surging innovation. This means that new technologies like 5G, AI, IoT, and cloud computing are more important than ever, and ICT is at the centre of it all. For many, however, embracing these new technologies and embarking on the journey to digital is formidable as there are many hurdles to overcome. With expert insight and guidance, however, you can have the world at your feet. As a leading global provider of ICT infrastructure, Huawei Enterprise South Africa is committed to helping enterprise organisations expand the boundaries of their business and find routes to new growth in the digital age. One of the ways Huawei Enterprise helps partners is by using new ICT to build city nervous systems that integrate the Internet of Things (IoT), big data, video cloud technology, Geographic Information Systems (GISs), and converged communications technologies through a digital platform to share fundamental Smart City resources. Additionally, Huawei Enterprise cooperates with partners to build platform ecosystems that support both urban governance and innovation. Currently, Huawei’s Smart City solution has served more than 160 cities in more than 40 countries, which has provided extensive Smart City construction experience that is being leveraged to help Rustenburg. They also help partners deploy city-wide wired and wireless networks, powerful cloud data centers, and government applications – all of which are cornerstones of a Smart City. “Looking to the future, Huawei Enterprise will continue to work with our partners to enable the digital transformation of all industries. Our vision is to bring digital to every person, home and organisation for a fully connected, intelligent world. Let’s work together to create a better, more connected future for all,” said Huawei Enterprise South Africa. Huawei Enterprise recently held its annual Eco Connect South Africa conference in Johannesburg. This was part of its efforts to bring industry visionaries, opinion leaders, and potential partners together to start discussions, engage with peers, and gain knowledge and insight into the trends shaping our world. Themes that were unpacked at the event included: “What opportunities lie ahead in Digitisation?”, “What it takes to become an Intelligent Business?”, and “How people, business, and “things” will interconnect in the digital economy”. Find out more about how Huawei Enterprise can help you on your road to digital transformation here. This article was published in partnership with Huawei Enterprise South Africa.