Huawei has launched its new P30 and P30 Pro smartphones in South Africa, and it expects the devices to perform extremely well in the local market. Speaking in an interview with MyBroadband, Huawei South Africa CTO Akhram Mohamed said the company expects the smartphones to be extremely popular in South Africa. In addition to the P30 and P30 Pro flagship smartphones, Huawei South Africa has also launched the P30 Lite. The Huawei P30 Lite sports a similar design to the P30 and P30 Pro, along with various flagship features such as a bezel-less display and tiny notch at the top of the screen. Huawei has shown extreme growth in South Africa over the last few years and with the launch of its P30 devices it looks poised to take over more of the local market. Mohamed told MyBroadband that the company’s global P20 shipments increased by 100% compared to the previous generation, and Mate 20 Pro shipments increased by a staggering 170% compared to the Mate 10 Pro. Huawei holds 30.6% market share of the above-R10,000 smartphone sector in South Africa, he added – showing the increased adoption of its flagships compared to other major brands. The company also has 43.8% market share in the local post-paid segment, making Huawei the number one post-paid brand in South Africa. Mohamed said he expects this growth to continue with the P30, and the phones are already drumming up more interest among consumers than the previous generation of flagships. “We were looking at triple-digit figure increases in sales from P10 to P20 Series,” Mohamed said. “Mate Series did the same thing. We saw triple-digit increases compared to the previous generation.” He added that Huawei has no reason not to expect a similar performance from its new product line-up, adding that interest generated around the P30 since the global launch has already exceeded that of the P20. “We believe this interest will translate into sales as well,” Mohamed said. The Huawei P30 Lite is expected to perform particularly well in South Africa due to its attractive price and high-end features. Based on the impressive sales of the P20 Lite in South Africa, Mohamed said that Huawei definitely expects a similar performance from the new mid-range device. “Even when we the launched P20 Pro, we did not consciously market the Lite series and the product still became number one in the country in its price segment,” Mohamed said. “I think because of the equity we have in P Series itself and the price point of the Lite, it naturally sells really well.” “This has been an incredible device series for us in South Africa, specifically. We expect the same kind of numbers as the P20 Lite, as the device has become a favourite of South Africans.” Mohamed said he expects Huawei to continue taking greater share of the South African market from competitors such as Apple and Samsung. The company has rapidly caught up with the big brands, overtaking the former in terms of overall market share last year and setting its sights on the top position across all pricing segments. Mohamed previously stated that Huawei could reach this goal as early as the end of 2019, provided it maintains its strong growth in the local smartphone sector. “In 2018, Huawei was either number one or number two in every pricing segment,” he said.