The SACS transatlantic fibre cable went live in September 2018, offering lower latency and improved connectivity between Africa and South America. The connection, owned by Angola Cables, runs between Fortaleza in Brazil and Luanda in Angola. Tests have shown that South African latency to Fortaleza decreases by 107ms through SACS, while substantial decreases have also been tracked to Miami. In October 2018, Cool Ideas was the first South African ISP to go live on the SACS cable. Traceroutes performed by MyBroadband at the time showed that latency between South African and Brazil was nearly halved, while a substantial decrease in latency to the US was also recorded. Broadband Infraco also signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Angola Cables in November 2018 regarding the use of its infrastructure, including the SACS cable. Andrew Matseke, CEO of Broadband Infraco, said that the partnership is crucial to the development of digital connectivity in South Africa. “Through the Angola Cables subsea networks, SACS, and Monet, Broadband Infraco will have the ability to share international traffic and content,” said Matseke. Angola Cables also announced in December that 6 more unnamed ISPs had signed deals with it over the use of their SACS and MONET cables. António Nunes, CEO of Angola Cables, said that the combination of the SACS and MONET cables is a game-changer for the southern hemisphere. According to Nunes, the benefits of the SACS cable range from superior gaming performance to superior shares management on foreign exchanges. South African data centre provider Teraco has also said that clients who use its Cape Town and Johannesburg data centres benefit from the SACS cable implementation. “This is an exciting development and includes much needed investment into local infrastructure,” said Jan Hnizdo, Teraco MD. “Built with a direct purpose to boost business in South Africa, SACS will provide improved connectivity and significantly lower latency routing between Africa and the Americas.” Nunes said that “The SACS southern hemisphere, ultra-low latency routings present a massive opportunity for Teraco’s direct clients to access fast and reliable cross connections between Africa and the Americas.” MyBroadband reached out to various fibre ISPs regarding their plans to utilise the SACS cable. RSAWeb told MyBroadband that while lower latency is an attractive idea, the ISP is ultimately driven by its customers’ demands. “Due to the company finding that large CDN’s represent the majority of its traffic growth, and the fact that most of these are hosted locally, the need to pick traffic up internationally has diminished,” said RSAWeb. “As a result, RSAWeb doesn’t plan to directly utilise the SACS cable.” Telkom also told MyBroadband that it has no plans to utilise the SACS cable. “Telkom has sufficient capacity and resilience to cater for our requirements for the foreseeable future,” Telkom explained. Vox also said that it has no plans to go live on SACS, while MyBroadband has learned that Internet Solutions has not elected to take any capacity with SACS. Afrihost had not provided comment at the time of publishing.