Eskom has stated that South Africa does not need to worry about electric cars affecting its ability to supply power to the country. In a media statement, Eskom said that electric cars could account for 30% of all motor vehicle sales by 2025. It added that it is engaging with major players to discuss how to grow the electric vehicle market in South Africa. Despite the expected growth in electric vehicle sales, however, only around 1,000 electric vehicles have been sold in South Africa since 2015. Eskom said this is down to factors such as price, which is impacted by a 45% import tax and duty costs imposed when electric vehicles come into South Africa. Eskom said it is the primary electricity supplier for vehicle charging in the country, which is why it is engaging with stakeholders in the electric vehicle sector. These stakeholders include NGOs, cities such as Cape Town and Johannesburg, and government departments such as Trade and Industry, Transport, and Environmental Affairs. The national energy provider said it also wants to create special tariffs for electric vehicle owners to allow them cheaper rates if they charge their vehicles during off-peak times. This would help “flatten the demand patterns outside peak periods” and ensure that electric vehicle owners have access to affordable power. According to Eskom, there is no need to worry about its ability to supply the necessary electricity to charge electric vehicles. “Even a massive growth in EVs will not have a major impact on the overall demand during any normal day,” said Eskom. It added that it is “well-advanced” in its research into photovoltaic and battery storage options, which can be used to power electric vehicles in the future. MyBroadband recently spoke to BMW South Africa about the effect of load-shedding on electric vehicle owners, however, and it recommended that electric car owners charge their vehicles whenever they’re not in use to avoid being caught out by a dead battery during load-shedding. BMW South Africa also offers an “On Call” service to customers, which will transport their car on a flatbed to the nearest charging facility, or any location that is convenient to the client, should the battery pack be depleted or low on power. It also has back-up power sources at all 38 dealerships with ChargeNow stations.