Many South Africans are struggling due to rising costs that seem to show no sign of slowing down. Petrol prices continue to surge, and April saw the following increases: Meanwhile, alongside heavy load-shedding that is damaging the economy substantially, Eskom has repeatedly increased the cost of electricity over the past few years. In the wake of these and other costs that put pressure on your pocket, it has become increasingly important to find ways to cut down on other costs. There are a variety of ways that you can reduce your expenses, but most of them require continued effort, or reductions in the level of your lifestyle. However, there is one area of your finances where you may be able to cut costs simply, without hurting the way you live: re-evaluate your car insurance. With so many insurers to choose from, there are some important things to consider when getting a quote. First things first, make sure you understand exactly what kind of cover your getting and if it satisfies your specific needs. Read the terms and conditions carefully and pay attention to what’s included or excluded in the policy. If you are not sure, make sure you make enquiries with an accredited financial advisor. Then, of course, you want a premium that saves you a substantial amount every month. You’ll also want this saving to last. What you don’t want is an initial affordable premium that increases substantially in a short period of time. Additionally, some insurance providers include bonuses if you don’t claim for a set period, meaning that you’ll get some value back on your monthly premium payments. Lastly, you’ll want to understand what happens if you need to claim, particularly what excess you may need to pay. Keeping all the above in mind, why not try OUTsurance? This reputable insurer is so confident that they can save you money, they will pay you R400 if they can’t beat your current premium – doubled to R800 if you have not had a car insurance claim in three years or more. They also offer fixed premiums for a 12-month period, ensuring that you don’t get any surprises. Their pioneering OUTbonus is well-known and offers customers 10% back on all premiums if they don’t claim for three years. They also offer clients free Help@OUT emergency roadside assistance, a network of OUTsurance-approved panel beaters and efficient claim turnaround times. Plus, there’s one fixed excess when it comes time to claim. Again, no nasty surprises. In these trying times, it’s important to get value for money, and what better way to do so than simply by changing your car insurance? Don’t hesitate – get a quote on OUTsurance car insurance today and see how much you can pocket. This article was published in partnership with OUTsurance.