Information Communication Technology Union (ICTU) president Moeketse Lepheana has told The Citizen that striking Cell C staff are joining Tiso Blackstar employees in a combined strike action. ICTU represents nearly 1,300 Cell C staff members who are striking due to the non-payment of bonuses promised to them. It also represents the striking Tiso Blackstar employees. “The employees of Cell C have decided in their caucus to say they understand the plight of the journalists in the country. They will go and picket at the Tiso Blackstar office as they are still on strike and will do so until Tiso Blackstar listens to the demand of the journalists,” said Lepheana. Earlier this month, Cell C suspended 378 employees who engaged in an illegal strike after it was granted an interdict to prevent striking employees from blocking the access and exit to its main campus. The suspension followed two ultimatums that were issued by management requesting staff to desist from blocking the Cell C campus and return to work. After failing to comply with these ultimatums, the employees who were still striking and blocking the exits of the campus were suspended. Tiso Blackstar, which runs publications such as the Sunday Times and the Sowetan, received notice from ICTU last Friday regarding the strike action of its members, which is being conducted due to salary and bonus-related disagreements. The first planned strike, which was scheduled for 6 March, was cancelled after “the employer (Tiso Blackstar) pleaded with ICTU to afford them an opportunity to negotiate,” said ICTU. “It became very clear that the company was not willing to accede to the demands of workers.” A full strike by Tiso Blackstar employees affiliated with ICTU is scheduled to take place on 6 May, with staff delivering a memorandum to the company’s head office the next day. MyBroadband asked Cell C for comment and it replied that it was “business as usual at Cell C.” Watch Cell C workers striking at Tiso Blackstar’s offices below. 