Home-Connect started in 2016 as a subsidiary of the CipherWave Group of companies as it entered the FTTH market and within 3 years has become known as one of the leading Fibre to the Home (FTTH) providers in South Africa. Having launched its first FTTH packages in May 2016, our company’s objective was to provide customers with a truly uncapped and unshaped internet package. This allows customers the freedom to explore the digital world on a superhighway without feeling they are traveling along a single, limited back road. After 3 years of exceptional growth we are today selling our services on over 24 Fibre Network Operators and are still growing. Those located outside of the metros should therefore keep a look out because it won’t be long before fibre is in your area. Home-Connect partners with the majority of South Africa’s leading and most successful Open Access Fibre Infrastructure providers in the market such as Vumatel, MetroFibre, Waterfall Access Networks, SA Digital Villages, Octotel, Openserve and Balwin Fibre. Home Connect, being a young and dynamic company, offers a range of packages that we believe are suited to meet the needs of our customers. All these packages are uncapped, unshaped, month-to-month and offer a free-to-use Smart Dual Band Wi-Fi Router. After listening to our customers’ feedback, we are pleased to announce the launch of our ULTIMATE package – offering free installation & activation – which means there are no once-off costs for new customers. Customer can cancel by providing 1 calendar months’ notice and if this is done within the first 12 months of being activated then the customer will only be liable to pay the monthly pro-rata amount for the installation costs (which varies per fibre provider). With the introduction of the Ultimate packages in April 2019, Home-Connect believes customers will enjoy the freedom of migrating to fibre and being connected to the digital world with an unbeatable offering. Home-Connect believes fibre should be affordable, reliable, unshaped and truly uncapped – with no soft cap or Fair Use Policy. One thing for certain is that for Home-Connect, customer service and customer support are the keystones to our business and plays a significant role in making sure customers enjoy the experience of moving over to the digital world. With this being a focus, we are seeing lots of positive feedback about Home-Connect. We might not get it right all the time, but we are always striving to improve as we receive feedback from customers. Customer feedback, whether positive or negative, is what helps us to improve and to ensure we are heading in the right direction. Home-Connect is also rated on a number of social media platforms and we are pleased with our progress over the last 3 years. View our reviews below: Facebook Hello Peter Fibre Tiger Google Home-Connect is rated as one of top-ranked ISPs in South Africa over the last few months in the MyBroadband reviews Giving Back Home-Connect is pleased to be part of the Vumatel school project and has connected nearly 30 schools over the last 2 years to the Digital World. We provide a 1Gbps service free of charge to each school ensuring they have access to the superhighway, so the teachers and students can experience the freedom of the digital world from their classrooms. We have a dedicated team at Home-Connect that assists these schools with digital transformation has and this has been a great success over the years. Mobile App Home Connect are also pleased to announce the launch of their mobile App, which is available on the Apple Store and the Google Play store. We built this app because we have realised the importance of being one step closer to our customers. By launching the mobile app we can provide customers with the functionality of live updates on network status, the ability to log tickets, the upgrading of connection speeds, and much more. The launch of the App provides customer with the same features as the portal, and we are working on the development of additional features to improve our customer’s experience. “We want customers to enjoy being part of the Home-Connect family,” said CEO Jonathan Mason. “We offer unbeatable uncapped Fibre packages at an affordable price to the consumer while providing exceptional customer service. We believe we have something unique at Home-Connect and our customer’s experience it from the minute they sign up, up until they are live.” “We have automated the business entirely and customers are always kept informed on the status of their order.” Win A Car Home-Connect is running an exciting competition from 1 March – 31 July 2019. The ISP is giving away a brand-new car – All you have to do to enter the draw is to sign up to fibre services with the ISP or refer a friend to fibre services. This competition is open to all existing or new clients signing up during the competition period. For more details visit www.home-connect.co.za This article was published in partnership with Home-Connect.