From the second half of 2018, many Telkom customers began to encounter problems when attempting to cancel their accounts. Following a barrage of complaints and issues filed with the company’s support teams, Telkom acknowledged that it had been experiencing some issues with its cancellation system and was working to improve the process. MyBroadband continued to receive complaints from Telkom users that they could not cancel their accounts, resulting in Telkom working on a dedicated online portal to aid customers in cancelling their products. While the company’s standard cancellation process is working correctly, some customers were unable to cancel their monthly bill despite their account being removed from the Telkom website’s database. This meant that they were unable to log in to the online portal to process their account cancellation, while still being billed for their previously-cancelled service every month. Some customers opted to stop paying for the packages they had cancelled, but this resulted in some ex-Telkom customers being blacklisted with the credit bureaus. MyBroadband continues to receive complaints from Telkom customers regarding unprocessed cancellations, but the company said it has now developed a portal specifically catering to this issue. Telkom stated that it has developed a dedicated cancellation escalation page for customers who previously requested cancellations but have yet to have them processed. This allows customers to use their reference number as an identifier to escalate their cancellation, letting them follow up on the issue if they can no longer log in to the website. To access the escalation page, users can navigate to Telkom’s support page, select ‘Cancellations’ in the ‘Department’ field and complete the required fields. This will require customers to enter their service number, name, contact number, and email address. Telkom promises that customers who escalate their cancellation this way will be contacted within 72 hours to resolve the problem. When it comes to processing new cancellations, Telkom said it has improved its cancellation process and platform to create a “seamless experience” for its customers. The new dedicated online cancellation portal provides an easier and more descriptive process for cancelling a Telkom account. Cancelling using this platform requires users to complete the cancellation request and upload the required documents. Once the required documents are uploaded and the request is submitted, users will receive a cancellation reference number. Using these new platforms, Telkom customers should have no issues processing new cancellation requests or escalating existing cancellations. It should also be noted that Telkom suggests that customers who want to cancel their account should do so through the official website rather than through physical stores or its call centre.