Composable infrastructure is a popular term used in the IT world, but what does it mean? A composable infrastructure is a physical computational, storage and network fabric framework where resources are treated as services. A highly composable system provides components that can be selected and assembled in various combinations to satisfy specific user requirements. You can provision IT the way you want it, when you want it, through a platform that automates operations. That’s composable infrastructure. But why does your business need composable infrastructure? Here are ten reasons to implement it in your business. Traditional infrastructures simply can’t create the new generation of mobile and cloud-native applications quickly enough, and the proliferation of these apps is only accelerating. Composable infrastructure enables DevOps teams to spin-up new services in minutes, putting new experiences into customer hands faster. Traditional infrastructure is characterised by rigid hardware divided into siloes and optimised for workloads rather than applications and service delivery. Composable infrastructure is not limited to a single operating paradigm and can run virtual machines, bare-metal deployment, and containers. This allows IT to align behind a single platform while reducing data centre complexity and cost. Composable infrastructure is software-defined and abstracted from traditional hardware constraints. It is able to pool computational, storage, and fabric resources, reassembling (or composing) these resources as needed. This software intelligence allows IT to automatically connect, aggregate, and control infrastructure resources in exciting new ways. Traditional enterprise IT cannot match the efficiency of cloud giants’ custom server environments while maintaining traditional infrastructure. Composable infrastructure changes the game, removing the need to stand up separate environments for different types of applications. By automating the provisioning process, operational practices become much more efficient. Through the unified API, infrastructure applications can be provisioned in minutes instead of days, giving enterprise IT a real shot at cloud-giant efficiency. By automating the provisioning process, operational practices become much more efficient. Through the unified API, infrastructure applications can be provisioned in minutes instead of days, giving enterprise IT a real shot at cloud-giant efficiency. With composable infrastructure, IT can accelerate the application development cycle by leveraging infrastructure-as-code. Application developers using DevOps methodologies can rapidly provision infrastructure and applications together in a single action because infrastructure becomes code through the unified API. Address cost-control issues by reducing operational effort through template-driven, frictionless operations made possible by software-defined intelligence. Composable infrastructure is made to accommodate changes on the fly in just a few mouse clicks. Hardware is deployed and managed automatically, further reducing labour costs. By making it easier to manage IT projects and systems, the composable approach frees up significant time and resources that can then be dedicated to customer-facing improvements. Business and IT can now put their heads together for serious collaboration, capitalizing on new ideas and responding to threats with greater ease. Composable infrastructure offers the speed, flexibility, and partner ecosystem that can deliver real benefits for both IT and the business. As an extendable platform and the foundation for hybrid IT, Composable Infrastructure is designed with the capacity and flexibility to handle future generations of computing. It’s easy to get started integrating composable infrastructure into the data centre. The technology can be deployed incrementally, side-by-side with existing resources. It takes less than half a rack of gear to get started, and can then scale from nodes to frames to rows. Composable Infrastructure can be deployed as part of your standard refresh cycle, giving you the ability to grow your capabilities at a pace that makes sense for your business. HPE Synergy is the world’s first platform designed specifically for composable infrastructure. It was built to bridge traditional and new IT, providing the agility, speed, and near-continuous delivery needed for today’s applications. Click here to download your free copy of the HPE Synergy for Dummies eBook. This article was published in partnership with HPE Datacentrix.