SARS IT head Mmamathe Makhekhe-Mokhuane has approached the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA) to go back to work. According to a News24 report Makhekhe-Mokhuane claimed that she is being bullied by SARS to resign. Makhekhe-Mokhuane has been at home on discretionary leave for the past few months, following her controversial interview on SABC Morning Live. In the interview, she responded to the interviewer with the phrase: “Mam, can you give me protection from yourself”. Her comments throughout the interview were deflective and combative, resulting in an awkward dialogue which has been mocked heavily since its airing. SARS has not issued an official statement regarding Makhekhe-Mokhuane’s suspension, however, and said its HR matters were private. Makhekhe-Mokhuane is fighting back to keep her job, arguing that she does not know whether she has been suspended or whether she is being investigated for any wrongdoing. In her CCMA submission she said she was placed on discretionary leave since 14 January when she had to go back to work. According to Makhekhe-Mokhuane she was sent home by SARS who told her to “reflect on a mutual separation”. “Since then I have not been informed what is the basis of a mutual separation. If I don’t accept the separation, I would face a disciplinary action,” her submission said. “Therefore, the employer has already concluded that I cannot be permitted to return to work as per his numerous letters in this regard.” Prior to her suspension, Makhekhe-Mokhuane earned R3.067 million for 11 months of work – a figure which has been criticised following the disastrous TV interview. News24 previously reported that Makhekhe-Mokhuane has been offered a 4-month salary package to resign, which equates to just over R1.09 million. SARS previously stated that Makhekhe-Mokhuane is an experienced IT professional with IT diplomas and an MBA from the University of the North West. The SARS IT head has also testified before the Nugent Commission, which highlighted major concerns at the IT branch of the revenue service. “In the 15 months of her tenure only one strategy meeting has been held. Of the 11 meetings with her subordinates she attended only four,” stated the Nugent Commission. He added that the aggressive, indecorous, and unusual manner in which Makhekhe-Mokhuane gave evidence was not appropriate for a person in her position at SARS. <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span>