Euphoria has changed the way telephone companies engage with customers and has set a new standard in delivering exceptional service. In an industry that has become renowned for lackluster service delivery, Euphoria has proven to do things differently and always strives to make each and every customer feel valued and important. “The customer is our CEO,” says Euphoria National Production and Support Manager Garth Siebers. “Our growth has largely been the result of our staff being enthusiastic about serving customers. We make an effort to create an amazing experience for them.” One of the many tools that Euphoria uses to achieve its service goals is Freshworks, a global customer engagement software tool which has been an essential part of the company’s continuing success. Freshworks enables better and faster service and makes it easy for support, sales and marketing professionals to communicate more effectively with customers. It delivers genuine ‘wow’ moments where queries and requests are dealt with efficiently. Siebers believes that excellent service creates loyal customers for life. “We chose Freshworks because it helps us offer the best possible service and support, every single day.” Euphoria was established to find a solution for high call costs while eliminating cumbersome and costly long term contracts and most of all, eradicate poor customer service. It was all about bringing an international class business phone system to the SME in South Africa. “We are proud that our very first customer, Altech Isis, is still with us since we first launched the company in 2010. We think that is great testament to the kind of service we offer. They joined us on a month-to-month contract and nearly a decade later they are still here and that speaks volumes,” he explains. He believes that promoting a positive culture internally is of paramount importance. “Being surrounded by happy staff automatically improves the way we interact with our customers. We love what we do and our customers pick up on that energy and obvious enthusiasm. Our approach is totally customer-centric.” Euphoria Telecom is geared towards making customers lives easier. Whether it’s for  three users or a company with 1,000+ phone extensions, the system remains simple to operate and scalable. “We wanted to give control to the business owner so that they could make changes themselves without waiting in queues or sending a ticket to get something done. Similar to Internet banking where clients logon and make payments, they no longer have to go to the bank or speak to anyone or stand in long queues,” he explains. “Our clients just log on and make the changes themselves – the system empowers them. More importantly, we have an efficient customer services team to handle support. Our relationships and the way we engage with our customers enables them to trust our system and gives them the confidence in what it can do for them”, he concludes. Euphoria has over 4,000 happy customers across South Africa including well-known brands like Debonairs Pizza, Vumatel, Just Property, Mr. Delivery, Dark Fibre Africa and Yuppiechef. This article was published in partnership with Euphoria Telecom.