Huawei has launched an official ecommerce platform in South Africa alongside its latest flagship smartphones. Speaking at the company’s local launch for its P30 devices, Huawei South Africa CTO Akhram Mohamed detailed the officially-licensed Huawei Store. The Huawei Store offers a wide selection of Huawei hardware, allowing smartphone owners to buy devices, cases, headphones, wearables, and more directly from the online storefront. This will be especially helpful for customers who would like to buy accessories unique to the new Huawei P30, such as a wireless charging case and wireless charger. Mohamed said that all Huawei hardware available in South Africa will be listed for purchase on the store, provided it is in stock and not end-of-life. Huawei noted that this ecommerce platform is a licensed reseller in partnership with Mustek Limited, and is not operated directly by Huawei South Africa. However, the after-sales support for purchases made through this platform is provided by the device manufacturer. There will also be various special promotions and unique offers available exclusively on the Huawei store. Pricing for the new P30 devices on the Huawei store is as follows: Mohamed noted that this is the recommended retail pricing for the devices and that most retailers should offer the devices in line with the official prices. The launch of a licensed ecommerce distributor in South Africa is another step Huawei has taken to grow its presence in South Africa. Speaking at the recent international launch of the company’s new smartphones, CEO Richard Yu told MyBroadband that South Africa was a key market for the Chinese smartphone manufacturer. “The South African market is very important for Huawei and we have seen strong growth in South Africa, especially in the middle-to-high tier,” Yu said. Huawei has also opened a dedicated warehouse for the local market as well as a local branch of the Huawei Cloud platform for enterprise customers. These infrastructure deployments allow for increased customer support, software functionality, and better launch windows for mainstream products. The company has also stated that Huawei Pay will be coming to South Africa by the middle of 2019, offering a competitive payment platform.