The Competition Commission has released a provisional report on its Data Services Market Inquiry, in which it prescribed new rules for mobile networks. The inquiry seeks to understand features in the market and the value chain that may cause high prices for data services, and makes recommendations based on this. In its preliminary findings, the commission said international benchmarking confirmed that South African data prices are high – particularly for mobile prepaid data. Notably, the commission found that South Africa’s data prices are higher than other BRICS and SADC countries. It also found that Vodacom and MTN charge higher prices in South Africa than other countries in which they operate. The commission further stated that South Africa’s data pricing is “anti-poor” and lacks transparency. “An assessment of headline retail prices of all mobile operators demonstrates that consumers of small data bundles, generally being poorer customers, pay inexplicably more on a per MB/GB basis.” “Relative to a 1GB bundle, a consumer buying a 100MB bundle will pay roughly twice the price on a per bundle basis for the same data period validity.” “A consumer buying a 50MB bundle will pay up to three times more and a 20MB bundle up to four times more”. The commission acknowledged, however, that a lack of spectrum played a role in high data prices. It said that while more spectrum may reduce operator costs, it won’t force companies to drop prices unless there are competitive pressures to do so. Despite the introduction of new competitors, the commission said that the dominance of Vodacom and MTN meant that the two companies could introduce prices independently and unconstrained by competitors. The commission therefore made the following recommendations: Stakeholders have now been called to make submissions on this report by 14 June 2019. Thereafter the inquiry team will assess these submissions before publishing a final report later this year. Data Services Inquiry Summary by BusinessTech on Scribd 