Samsung has delayed the launch of its new Galaxy Fold smartphone after reviewers around the world reported problems with the device’s foldable display. The device is set to retail for $1,980. “We recently unveiled a completely new mobile category: a smartphone using multiple new technologies and materials to create a display that is flexible enough to fold,” Samsung said. “We are encouraged by the excitement around the Galaxy Fold. While many reviewers shared with us the vast potential they see, some also showed us how the device needs further improvements that could ensure the best possible user experience.” Reviewers reported several problems with the Galaxy Fold, including the display breaking and flickering for unknown reasons. Some users, such as YouTuber Marques Brownlee, tried to peel off what looks like a screen protector on the Galaxy Fold’s display only to find that peeling off this layer completely breaks the display. Others reported the displays of their devices flicker and turning off after only a few days, even when this protective film was left undisturbed on the device. “To fully evaluate this feedback and run further internal tests, we have decided to delay the release of the Galaxy Fold,” Samsung said. “We plan to announce the release date in the coming weeks.” Samsung said that its initial findings from the inspection of reported issues showed that they could be associated with impact on the top and bottom exposed areas of the hinge. “There was also an instance where substances found inside the device affected the display performance,” Samsung said. The company said that it will take measures to strengthen the display protection. It will also improve the guidance it provides on care and use of the display, including the protective layer. “We value the trust our customers place in us and they are always our top priority. Samsung is committed to working closely with customers and partners to move the industry forward. We want to thank them for their patience and understanding.”