As data protection underwent a substantial change last year, organisations were left grappling with new privacy regulations, exceedingly sophisticated ransomware attacks, and cloud-first disaster recovery strategies. This ushered in unexpected costs and heightened risks of data loss. Below, Speer Management Services – a trusted Managed Service provider, outlines three of Arcserve’s predictions for 2019 and their impact over the next 12 months. Many organisations have adopted cloud-first strategies to benefit from the increased agility and economies of scale, however they face unexpected and significant fees associated with the movement and recovery of data in public clouds. Karl Basson, CTO at Speer Management Services explains: “Because of this, more organisations will scale back from using public clouds for disaster recovery (DR) and instead, leverage hybrid cloud strategies and cloud service providers (CSPs), which offer private cloud solutions with predictable cost models.” A year in technology can be measured in seconds, with new capabilities transforming the way we interact with, and protect, critical business data. Over the coming year, organisations can expect data protection solutions to go beyond real-time insight and incorporate artificial intelligence (AI) capabilities that can predict and avert unplanned downtime from physical disasters before they happen. These solutions will automate DR processes, intelligently restoring the most frequently accessed, cross-functional or critical data first and proactively replicate it to the cloud before a downtime event occurs. “AI will affect organisation’s even more in the coming future, and costs can escalate to high levels if customers choose to tackle this alone,” said Basson. The “as-a-service” model is growing at lightning speed, and this trend will continue in the next 12 months. Specifically, self-managed disaster recovery as a service (DRaaS) will increase in prominence as organisations seek to realise the cloud’s full value as a DR option with a lower investment than managed DRaaS. In response, channel partners will add more self-service options to support growing customer demand for contractually guaranteed recovery time and point objectives (RTOs/RPOs) while expanding their addressable market without the responsibility of managing customer environments “Companies are treating data protection as a priority, and will invest a significant amount of time and money into ensuring that resources and services can protect their invaluable corporate data,” said Basson. “What is certain, is that organisations still need to equip themselves with knowledge when it comes to management of data, which is cost-effective and at the same time, efficient. I am curious to see how businesses will address and rectify the challenges now and in the future. I believe organizations need to be careful when choosing the right managed service provider who can ensure Enterprise level data protection at affordable midmarket costs,” he concluded. This article was published in partnership with Speer Management Services.