Buying a new car is one of the most exciting things you can do. There’s nothing quite like that “new car” smell, and the excitement of driving your new wheels out of the showroom is one of life’s great pleasures. If you’re in the market for a crossover SUV, there’s no better place to look than at McCarthy Nissan for #YourNextNissan. Nissan is well-known for producing top-class vehicles within the crossover market, and the latest Qashqai and X-Trail models are no exception. Both vehicles demand your consideration as they offer a fantastic blend of performance and aesthetic appeal. This Nissan Qashqai has been given a makeover to ensure that it exudes a premium feel. Included in this makeover are new headlamps, an aggressive front grille, and newly-designed stylish wheels. These features mean that it looks and feels even more sporty to drive than before. As great as it looks from the outside, it has an equally stunning interior. A classy blend of blacks, greys and silvers are accentuated by a variety of intelligent functions including multi-camera parking assistance, and various detection and warning mechanisms. Under the hood, Nissan has truly mastered the art of balancing potent performance and fuel efficiency. The petrol version consumes just 6.2l/100km, while the diesel version comes in at a stunningly low 4.2l/100km. The option is available to choose between a 6-speed manual transmission or a CVT automatic gearbox – which even includes an eco-mode. The Qashqai offers its users responsive handling, which yet again provides a great balance – this time between agility and stability. The Nissan X-Trail is perfectly designed for long-distance family trips – wherever these may take you. A mixture of beefy styling and powerful functionality makes the X-Trail an obvious choice if you’re looking for a big and bold crossover. The X-Trail looks like a truly premium vehicle thanks to its domineering yet sleek design. Featuring an attractive V-Motion grille and 19-inch aluminium-alloy wheels, you’ll be sure to stand out wherever you go. Despite it’s classy looks, The X-Trail is a lot more than a pretty face. This vehicle is capable of 4×4 driving and offers various engine choices that allow for acceleration from 0-100km/h in as little 10.5 seconds. For such a powerful vehicle, it offers remarkably good fuel consumption. The petrol versions use just 8.3l/100km, while the diesel versions’ usage drops to as little as 5.1l/100km. The X-Trail is also available in 6-speed manual or CVT automatic versions and offers various smart systems such as an intelligent 4×4 system, selectable drive modes, and even a 5-inch drive-assist display – which displays all your driving information in one place. Whether you’re a fan of the sporty Qashqai or the beefy X-Trail, there is no better time than right now to buy #YourNextNissan. Book a test drive or learn more about the Nissan Qashqai and X-Trail vehicles on McCarthy Nissan’s website. This article was published in partnership with Bidvest McCarthy.