Former President Jacob Zuma is reportedly behind the launch of a new political party, the African Transformation Movement (ATM). This is according to Rapport, which said the party was formed in June last year following a meeting in an Umhlanga Rocks hotel where Zuma and some of his loyalists were present. The African Transformation Movement made headlines this month after former cabinet spokesman and Gupta associate Mzwanele Manyi joined the party as its chief of policy and strategy. Manyi said in a press briefing that he has left the ANC, which he served for 30 years, because it is failing in its transformation mandate. “The ANC is tired. The ANC is fatigued. The ANC has lost its hegemony. The ANC has lost its moral compass. The ANC is now actively reversing our gains,” Manyi said. The African Transformation Movement was officially launched in October 2018, with a countrywide launch tour to attract members. The new party was formed by the SA Council of Messianic Churches in Christ and is led by Zuma loyalist Vuyolwethu Zungula – who is the leader and party president. “This is a party that is formed by the people. It is not formed by politicians who have broken away from other political parties,” Zungula said at one of the launch rallies. According to Rapport, many Zuma loyalists called for the formation of the party after it became clear that President Cyril Ramaphosa was set to act against those linked to state capture. Shortly after Manyi joined the ATM, the All Africa Decolonisation Congress (AADC) party accused him of money laundering. Manyi helped form the AADC, but the party dismissed him, saying he and the ATM leadership “are laundering money through the party”. “As the movement intending to bring change in South Africa we have to distance ourselves from Mzwanele Jimmy Manyi and all his fraudulent activities,” AADC spokesperson Edward Mokomele said. Manyi dismissed these accusations as rubbish and threatened legal action against Mokomele for defamation of character. “AADC is my own creation, my own party and I will prove that by shutting it down,” Manyi told News24.