A month after finishing as runner-up at Dreamhack Winter 2018, South Africa’s Bravado’s CS:GO team is struggling to secure the necessary funds to remain in the USA. Bravado moved to the USA in February 2018 in order to compete against the best teams in the world, calling this journey “Project Destiny.” The team has impressed the global CS:GO community by beating the likes of G2, Optic, and Luminosity on their way to their current position as the 25th ranked CS:GO team in the world. Additionally, after winning back-to-back leagues in the USA, Bravado is in the ESEA Mountain Dew League. “All in all, I think that Project Destiny has been very beneficial, not only to Bravado Gaming and the players, but the fact that South Africans as a whole could achieve the zero-to-hero story,” Bravado CEO Andreas Hadjipaschali told MyBroadband. As it stands, however, the players will be forced to return to South Africa after the Americas IEM Katowice Minor event, which takes place on 22-26 January, due to financial constraints. “As an organization, we’ve entered into much debt, pushing hard and strong day-by-day, month-by-month to make sure that we can keep our dream alive of becoming one of the best esports call-to-actions the world has seen,” Bravado said in a statement. Their financial struggles have left the organisation with three options: Bravado has initiated a crowdfunding campaign, hoping to secure enough funding to continue their stay in the USA. So far, the organisation has accrued just over a third of their $30,000 goal, and needs to find the rest by 21 January if it hopes to continue competing overseas. Bravado’s crowdfunding campaign has already drawn the attention of a variety of the world’s top CS:GO professionals, including Vitality’s apEX, and MIBR’s Tarik and FalleN. The latter dedicated all donations to Bravado when he streamed to his 680,000 followers on 10 January. “We’re always on the lookout for additional partners and investors, and we’re more than happy to send them our decks so that they can see what value and ROI we’ve brought through in the past year,” added Hadjipaschali. Hadjipaschali thanked everyone who has played a part in Bravado’s journey, and reaffirmed the organisation’s commitment to Project Destiny. “We’ll continue trying our best, day and night, through blood, sweat, and tears to continue this story of becoming one of the best teams in the world,” he said. <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span>