Samsung has unveiled three new PC monitors in the build-up to CES 2019. The monitors are aimed at the business, gaming, and content creator segments and feature new and improved features. First up is the Space Monitor for the workplace, with its standout features a space-saving design and flexible stand. Its sleek design means it can be set up flush against a wall, and then extended forward and down as needed by the user thanks to a hinged arm that is height-adjustable and attached to a desk clamp. The stand for the monitor also contains space for power and HDMI cords, hiding them from view. “Through easy ergonomic adjustment, port access and a discreet cable management system, Space Monitor improves the form and function of any workstation or home office,” said Samsung. There are two Space Monitor models currently available for pre-order: Looking at the 4K model (3,840 x 2,160), Samsung has implemented a 4ms response time on its VA panel, and a 60Hz refresh rate.  Next up is the CRG9 49-inch gaming monitor, which offers an ultra-wide screen with a dual-QHD resolution – 5,120 x 1,440. “The CRG9 is the world’s first high-resolution super ultra-wide gaming monitor with 32:9 aspect ratio,” said Samsung, adding that this is the equivalent of running two 27-inch 16:9 QHD monitors side-by-side. It offers a 120Hz refresh rate and a 4ms response time, along with support for AMD FreeSync 2 and HDR10. The display also packs an 1800R curvature, and Picture by Picture support for multitasking. No pricing for the display was announced.  The final monitor on the list is the UR59C. It is a 32-inch monitor, which Samsung said is the world’s first 32-inch curved 4K display designed for content creators. It packs a 3,840 x 2,160 resolution, 1500R curvature, 4ms response time, and 16:9 aspect ratio. “The 1500R curvature delivers a truly immersive experience that shines while creating content and art, watching videos, or gaming – while reducing the eye strain typically associated with long periods of traditional monitor use,” said Samsung. The monitor will be available in “Dark Blue Gray” and features a super-slim design with a fabric-textured rear casing. “Its 3-sided bezel-less screen is attached to a slender yet sturdy V-slim metal stand with two-prong base that encases cables and reduces its footprint on work space,” added Samsung. No pricing for the monitor was announced. 