The upcoming 2019 general elections will help determine how the country is run over the next five years, so it is important that all South Africans vote. Registrations end on the weekend of 26-27 January 2019, but even if you have registered to vote in the past, you may not be registered to vote at your nearest voting station. This will be the case if you have moved since the last elections. Thankfully, the IEC has ensured that it is possible to change your voters’ roll details online – and it only takes five minutes to action. Here’s how it works. To change your address online, you’ll need to create a profile on the IEC’s portal. First, you’ll need to navigate to www.elections.org.za/MyIEC/Account/Login  Next, click on the “create user profile now” text. This will take you to a sign up page, where you will need to fill in the appropriate details.  You can choose between using a cellphone number or an email as your means of confirmation. Once you’ve filled in these details, tick the Privacy Policy box, as well as the Captcha box, and then click on the “Create Profile” button. You will then be taken to a page that asks you to enter your OTP. This will have been sent to you via text message or email, depending on which confirmation option you chose on the previous page.  Once you’ve confirmed your OTP, you’ll be taken to a password page.  The password your create needs to include at least one upper case letter, one number, and one other symbol. Submit this, and you will be taken to a final registration page – where you will be asked to check your information. You will also be asked to enter a security question – ensuring that if you forget your password, there is way to prove that you are the registered person.  Once you have submitted this, you will be taken to your details page. This page displays your current voter address, voter registration details, ward councillor, and municipality details.  To change your address, click on the “Edit/Update Address” button. This will take you to a page that allows you to update your address using one of three methods:  Once you’ve submitted this data, you will be redirected to a warning notice that tells you your voting district is going to change.  Tick the required box, and then click “Accept”. A pop-up box will appear, asking if you are sure you want to continue. Click on “Yes” to submit your new address. You will then receive an official verification document, signed by the IEC’s Chief Electoral Officer, that confirms the changes made to your address.  Your address should update within an hour of submission, and this will automatically change your voting station to the one closest to your residence. You can check these details by logging into www.elections.org.za/MyIEC/Account/Login with the login details you confirmed earlier in the process.