MSI announced a refreshed line-up of gaming and professional laptops at CES 2019, including an overhauled version of its GS65 Stealth notebook. The increasing capability of mobile CPUs and GPUs for laptops has allowed manufacturers to pack desktop-grade performance into notebook form factors while retaining good battery life and portability. MSI has taken full advantage of these hardware improvements to deliver high-end gaming performance in a slim form factor across its GS65 and GS75 Stealth gaming notebooks. The MSI GS75 Stealth is a slim and powerful 17.3-inch gaming laptop, while the 15.6-inch GS65 Stealth offers the same level of performance in a smaller package. MSI’s GS65 Stealth combines the best aspects of gaming performance and portability, and was awarded the CES Innovation Award due to its ultra-portable design. The MSI GS65 Stealth is a lightweight and stylish gaming laptop which makes no compromises in terms of performance. Weighing in at only 1.9kg and with a thickness of 17.9mm, the GS65 Stealth competes with professional laptops in terms of size, while offering powerful gaming performance. Leveraging Nvidia’s Max-Q design, which allows slim laptops to feature powerful graphics cards, the MSI GS65 Stealth boats Nvidia GeForce RTX graphics. MSI has also enhanced its exclusive Cooler Boost design, effectively reducing operating temperatures. The GS65 Stealth also boasts high-quality sound by Dynaudio, with ESS Sabre HiFi audio DAC technology and Nahimic 3 Audio Enhancer software. On the control side, the size of the laptop’s touchpad has been increased and added support for over 10 gestures – allowing for improved productivity and easier navigation. The per-key RGB SteelSeries keyboard is also configurable for a variety of gaming scenarios, and can change dynamically according to in-game status. With its sandblasted finish and gold trim, the MSI GS65 Stealth is a sleek and stylish device with a ton of impressive hardware beneath its hood. The display on the MSI GS65 Stealth is a 15.6-inch 1,920 x 1,080 IPS panel with a refresh rate of 144Hz. This offers great colour depth and display quality while ensuring smooth performance in competitive gaming situations. The device is available in a number of hardware configurations, the most powerful of which includes the impressive Nvidia GeForce RTX 2080 8GB graphics card with Max-Q design. This GPU is one of the best on the market, and enables cutting-edge features such as ray-tracing for many video games – improving the quality of reflections and effects rendering. The Intel Core i7 processor and SSD storage configurations for the high-end laptop then ensure that its GPU has enough headroom to deliver great performance in all the latest titles. The MSI GS65 Stealth is configurable with up to 32GB of DDR4 RAM, 512GB of SSD storage, and a hexa-core Intel Core i7-8750H CPU. There is currently no pricing or release date available for the MSI GS65 Stealth. Below are the specifications for the MSI GS65 Stealth with Nvidia RTX 2080.      Jamie McKane is reporting from CES 2019 in Las Vegas.