Schneider Electric South Africa announced that it has revamped its online portal for IT Channel Partners to improve the overall experience of the site. Companies and individuals who partner with Schneider Electric receive access to marketing resources, discounts on products and services, tools, and training. The revamp provides more efficient access to these incentives, product information, tools, and training and support resources, Schneider Electric said. Among the tools available through the partnership programme is one which helps with the design of scalable power and cooling, racks, and power distribution. It also includes monitoring and management software for integrated solutions. Training is provided through an online platform, with occasional classroom sessions scheduled to allow interaction between instructors and fellow partners in training. Certification includes training in technical pre-sales, and practical technical hands-on sessions which are also conducted in a classroom environment. Schneider Electric’s channel partner programme is a four-tiered system, categorised as: Registered, Select, Premier, and Elite. Registered Partners is the entry point of our partner program that begin by a few clicks on the partner portal registration page. They receive access to basic tools, benefits and training that will allow them to move to the next level in the program. Select Partners is differentiated by the training and certification they have completed and therefore their specialisation in specific business focus. The key benefits include access to news, training, tools, reseller listing locator, rewards programs and opportunity registration program (ORP). The next level, Premier Partners, have further benefits over select in the form of Partner Opportunity Program whereby Schneider Electric opportunities are fairly pushed to all our Premier Partners to win the business. Furthermore, Premier Partner receive marketing development funds (MDF), to allow them to further penentrate and win business together with Schneider Electric. Elite Partners, the top tier of our partner program, leverages the full scope of the Schneider Electric solution with specialised training and certification, preferential pricing, and priority technical and sales support over and above the Premier Partner benefits, This positions our Elite partners as a system integrator for large and hyper scale data centres from identification, design to project execution.. With the raise of Edge computing trends, a newly developed edge configurator tools further enhance our partners to deliver world class slotuions in the growing space. The revamp makes accisibility, use and benfits easier to manage. Another significant update was made to the personal pages of partners to help them track their requirements. This allows sales and pre-sales teams, as well as business owners to access what is most important to them, Schneider Electric said. “Through this Partner Portal we aim to make it easier for our partners to engage with us,” said Chetan Mistry, the channel development manager for Anglophone Africa at Schneider Electric. “We want to offer them an opportunity to achieve their business goals, while increasing the benefits, privileges, and profit opportunities available to them at each stage in the program,” Mistry concluded. To find out more, visit the Schneider Electric website, and watch the video below. <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> This article was published in partnership with Schneider Electric.