A comfortable chair is a must-have for serious gamers, but Acer has delivered a next-level experience with its insane Predator Thronos gaming chair. Packing a motorised triple-monitor mount, zero-gravity recline feature, and supreme comfort, the Acer Predator Thronos is a throne fit for a king. We had the opportunity to visit Acer and enjoy the thrilling experience of gaming in the Thronos, and it was a revolutionary experience. Sitting in the chair and lowering the hefty triple-monitor display places you in an immersive gaming environment, with tons of configurable settings to tweak the Predator Thronos’ position for maximum comfort. The setup elevates your gaming experience, with the three curved 27-inch displays allowing you to experience your favourite games like never before.  The Acer Predator Thronos cuts an imposing figure, and when you first sit in the chair and lower the monitors to surround your vision, you feel as though you are strapping in for a rocket launch – albeit with RGB lighting and configurable seat vibration. Once seated, a selection of buttons on the left arm of the Thronos allow you to tweak monitor height, footrest elevation, and zero-gravity recline angle. You can set up the Acer Predator Thronos in a variety of configurations, and exiting the chair is as simple as a single press of the “cabin open” button. While seated, you can control the multiple vibration motors in the seat using a dedicated remote, setting the chair to react to volume or cues in your game of choice. Another remote allows you to configure the RGB lighting which is integrated into the chassis of the Thronos, granting you countless options including pulsing, flashing, and slowly shifting colours. A cabin light which shines into the seat can be turned on or off by pressing a button overhead, and the armrests on either side can be adjusted freely. There are also storage pockets on either side of the chair to place your snacks in, and two cup holders to hold your drinks, making the Thronos ideal for marathon gaming sessions.  When it comes to actually gaming on the Acer Predator Thronos, it is a whole new experience compared to a conventional desk setup. The model we tested boasted three 27-inch curved WQHD 144Hz G-Sync Predator Z1 monitors in an ultra-wide configuration and was powered by an Acer Predator Orion 9000 gaming PC with two Nvidia GeForce GTX 1080 Ti graphics cards in SLI. Models ordered by customers will also be available with Predator gaming PCs which feature Nvidia’s newest RTX Series graphics cards, which are more than powerful enough to drive the three monstrous displays mounted on the Thronos. Ultra-wide monitors can deliver incredible fields of view in compatible games, but the three curved G-Sync monitors mounted on the Predator Thronos are a wholly unique experience. We played everything from first-person shooters to racing games, and the three high-resolution displays paired with the raw horsepower of the Predator Orion 9000 gaming rig delivered the best gaming experience we’ve had to date. The keyboard tray is also motorised and sports a user-selected custom mouse pad. Thanks to the variety of seat and display mount configuration options, we were still extremely comfortable even during a long gaming session. The Acer Predator Thronos is available to order from Acer in South Africa, and users can select exactly which hardware they would like to pair with the high-tech gaming chair. Whether you’re a hardcore gamer looking for the ultimate addition to your gaming den or a casual player seeking the most luxurious gaming experience on the market, your search stops at the Acer Predator Thronos.  This article was published in partnership with Acer Africa.