Using an external service provider to assist with your business’s IT needs is something that has grown in popularity over the years, thanks to a number of benefits which directly translate into cost savings. Defined as ‘managed services’, an external provider monitors and looks after a business’s IT and technology needs, improving productivity, reducing expenses and streamlining processes. “With South Africa’s economy in a slump, businesses are looking to get real value for money from their IT & tech providers,” says Mark Parsons, Technical Director at Apple Premium Reseller, Digicape. “For smaller companies, having an in-house IT technician or department is usually expensive, and often unnecessary. SMEs’ IT requirements are generally not as complex or extensive as those of large corporates. These businesses would benefit from employing the technical services of an external provider, who is able to assist with the supply of hardware as well as the set-up and can also provide ongoing support as and when needed.” Digicape’s managed services, now called Business IT Solutions, cater for Apple-only or blended work environments which combine PC and Apple hardware and software, offering clients full systems integration. The package comprises of workstation and server hardware monitoring, with Monitoring Only, Standard or Advanced Response options. The standard and advanced response packages include pro-active response to health status, monitoring alerts and automatic security updates. Below Parsons discusses a few reasons why SMEs can benefit from Digicape’s Business IT Solutions: All companies rely on technology to improve productivity and enhance the way they do business, so when unforeseen glitches happen, it ends up costing the business money due to downtime. “As part of Digicape’s Business IT Solutions, we offer escalated telephonic support through a help desk and self-service ticketing portal. This enables priority response to critical business systems via secure remote access or on-site support. We also offer the provision of temporary rental equipment. In the event that a machine is in for service, employees can continue with their day-to-day tasks thanks to their loan device.” Switching to a managed service reduces infrastructure costs in a number of different ways. When a provider takes control of the infrastructure, businesses are able to downscale their existing on-site infrastructure through centralising management via the service provider’s data centres. “You not only save on the cost of the hardware, but also on the energy it uses and the space required to house it. Additionally, you’ll see savings related to licensing, training and consulting.” As your business grows, its support structure needs to grow too. Managed services enable you to upscale (or even downscale) your business simply by having a discussion with your provider. “Digicape’s Business IT Solutions provide flexibility, affording you the necessary support for expansion, whenever you need it.” All of the above benefits of managed services can boost overall business productivity by creating an IT environment that is reliable, scalable and well-supported. “Regardless of whether you run a small or medium-size business, managed services offer a number of benefits, which can positively impact both your daily work and your bottom line,” Parsons concludes. This article was published in partnership with Digicape.