Israeli scientists have revealed that they might have found the first complete cure for cancer which will be affordable, quick, and have minimal side effects. The Jerusalem Post reported that Accelerated Evolution Biotechnologies (AEBi) is developing the new treatment. AEBi chairman Dan Aridor is confident they will have a complete cure for cancer within the next year. Aridor explained that the treatment, which they call MuTaTo (multi-target toxin) is on the scale of a cancer antibiotic – “a disruption technology of the highest order”. The anti-cancer drug is based on SoAP technology, which belongs to the phage display group of technologies. It involves the introduction of DNA coding for a protein, such as an antibody, into a bacteriophage – a virus that infects bacteria. The Jerusalem Post explained that MuTaTo uses a combination of several cancer-targeting peptides for each cancer cell at the same time, combined with a strong peptide toxin that would kill cancer cells specifically. The treatment will not be affected by mutations by using at least three targeting peptides on the same structure with a strong toxin. Les Funtleyder, healthcare portfolio manager at E Squared Capital Management, told CNBC that the company has, to date, only tested the treatment in mice. “It can take six to seven years to bring cancer drugs from ‘mouse to market’ – even when drugmakers receive special permissions,” said Funtleyder. He added that AEBi has not published any clinical evidence showing the treatment works in humans. “I mean, I’d love there to be a cure for cancer, but I do not believe them in the absence of good human evidence,” he said. Dr. Benjamin Neel, the director of the Cancer Center at NYU Langone Health, told ABC News that it’s highly unlikely that a company has developed something that is going to cure all cancers within a year. A Duke Health spokesperson declined to comment because of a lack of scientific peer-review, saying it is a “non-story” until the proof is in. 