Registered private higher education institution Open Window, nestled in the leafy suburb of Southdowns in Centurion, offers a range of career options for the curious and creative at heart. With curricula inspired by ongoing innovation and industry relationships, Open Window prides itself in being the educational leader in creative fields, as it maintains evolution in line with the growth and progression of the creative industry – both locally and internationally. Over the past 25 years, Open Window has developed 3 accredited undergraduate degrees with 14 specialisations, 4 certificate programmes, and a postgraduate degree, with specialisation in any one of the 14 disciplines available at Open Window. The 14 specialised and ever-developing disciplines available within Open Window’s undergraduate degree programmes include: Accredited Certificates are available in Design Techniques (Graphic Design), Photography, Film & Television Production and 3D Animation & Visual Effects. The latest addition to Open Window’s product offering is the School of Creative Technologies. It consists of a Bachelor of Interaction Design degree – which is the first of its kind in South Africa. Graduates from this programme are in high demand in industry for the skillsets taught in this programme. The course provides innovative study in the diverse and rapidly evolving fields focusing on user-centered design principles with specialisations in interaction design, interactive development or 3D design. Graduates in this programme are equipped with strong problem-solving and research skills in order to craft meaningful experiences through digital and physical products and services. To name a few of the careers that students can work towards in this programme are UX designers, Web & Application Designers, Developers (Programming), Furniture Design and Spatial Design. This niche institution leads the way in design and creativity, thanks to highly qualified and passionate academic staff, who ensure that students constantly explore and interrogate the creative, innovative and inventive areas of this industry. The curricula are also rigorously monitored and maintained to ensure that graduates are always in possession of the latest, industry relevant digital and creative skills and knowledge. To showcase and support the development of students’ practical abilities and skills throughout the year, Open Window exhibits each final year student’s work at a Portfolio evening at the end of each academic year. Open Window commented that they have been named second best educational institution by the Loeries, with 3 of their lecturers placed in the Loeries official rankings as well. A high priority is placed on the well-being of an Open Window student. Open Window is not only focused on creativity, and believes that student life during tertiary studies is important in a student’s journey through tertiary studies. Quality student support, on-campus student activities and sports or social clubs all add to student life on the beautiful campus. Applications and registrations are open until the end of January 2019, for both day and evening classes commencing in February. To Apply or to explore the career options available, visit the Open Window website. For more information, you can also watch the interview below.  This article was published in partnership with Open Window.