HBO released its “sizzle reel” recently, offering viewers a sneak peek of the new season of Game of Thrones, as well as various other upcoming releases.  Arriving in April 2019, this season of Game of Thrones will be the final installation of the hit series. Based upon the best-selling book series by George R.R. Martin, Game of Thrones follows the power battles between the various families who wish to be the rulers of Westeros. The final season is set to reveal once and for all the fate of Westeros. Sansa meeting Daenerys and declaring “Winterfell is yours, your grace,” sets the scene for what is bound to be the best season of HBO’s flagship show yet. New series from HBO in 2019 HBO’s teaser reel also highlights other hit series that will see new seasons released in the upcoming year. True Detective  Stream the latest episodes of True Detective on DStv Now, or watch the first two seasons on Showmax. Game of Thrones  Catch up on seven seasons Game of Thrones on Showmax before the international launch of season 8 in April. Showmax is the only place all seasons are available in South Africa. Succession  Missed this sleeper hit last year? Don’t worry, the first season of this brilliant series about a mega-wealthy, mega-awful family is on Showmax. The second season is rumoured to release in June 2019, but nothing is confirmed. Big Little Lies  The new season, which premieres in June 2019, promises even more mysteries and twists, will comprise seven episodes and will star all the beloved women from Season 1 – Reese Witherspoon, Nicole Kidman, Shailene Woodley, Laura Dern and Zoe Kravitz. Watch season 1 on Showmax. Veep  Selina’s political dream team are the perfectly zany and disorganised group to keep her on top in Veep’s White House. Catch Seasons 1 to 6 of Veep on Showmax before the final season airs latest this year. Want more HBO? Showmax is the only place in South Africa to stream top HBO series, including the latest seasons of The Deuce and Room 104. There’s no time to waste. Start bingeing now on Showmax. This article was published in partnership with Showmax.