After reading several articles about Pargo expanding in South Africa and increasing its ecommerce delivery market share, we decided it was time to put the service to the test. Pargo describes itself as a smart logistics company that makes it easy for online shops to get parcels to their clients. The company has pickup points across South Africa – including in small towns – and provides an alternative to having a package delivered to your home or office. What makes Pargo stand out is its agreements with Clicks and Spar – which lets Pargo use their stores as collection points for clients. Shoppers place their order, select a Pargo collection point from a map, and then fetch their order when they want. To test pargo, we purchased Cooler Master single-colour LED strips from Raru. The LED strip comes in a two-pack, and each strip offers red LED lighting and a magnetic backing so you can place it on the inside of your PC case. They are powered via SATA, and provide consistent, diffused lighting in your case. After picking the item and going to checkout on Raru, we selected the Pargo delivery option. The Pargo option was slightly more expensive than a courier delivery to a main centre – and was made more expensive when we could only select the “big package” Pargo option. This may be due to the box which contains the LED strips being around 30cm long. The Pargo fee was R139.  After selecting the Pargo option, we chose the nearest collection point to our office. This was a Clicks at a shopping centre down the road.  After a couple of days, Raru mailed us to state that our order had been dispatched. A few minutes later we received an email from Pargo informing us that it was our chosen method of delivery. The email also contained a tracking number and a link to the Pargo website to follow our package’s progress. Raru stated it had shipped the package on 11 January, which Pargo confirmed. On 13 January, we received an email and SMS from Pargo saying the package was ready for collection. We were instructed to take a form of identification with us to the Clicks store, and reference the Pargo code contained in the communication. As it was a Friday, we decided to leave the package collection for Saturday morning. We arrived at the Clicks the next day and went to the tills. After telling a cashier we wanted to collect a Pargo package, she called the store manager and he assisted us. A Pargo collection sign was also posted near the tills in the store. To get your parcel, you provide your name and hand over your identification – my driver’s licence in this case. The Clicks manager then looked for the package, and requested the Pargo code which was sent to us. After confirming the code, we were asked to sign for the order on a small smartphone with our finger – which ended up looking more like a child drawing a snake during an earthquake. The Clicks employee then handed over the package, and we were done. The entire collection process was quick and easy, although the Clicks was very quiet when we went in. A bonus of collecting your package from a store is that while you are there, you can stock up on items running low at home – which was batteries for a wireless keyboard in our case.  