Kathea has been appointed as the distributor of Yealink’s new Voice and Video solutions for Microsoft Teams and Skype for Business. “Kathea has always been at the forefront of devices optimised for use on Microsoft UC platforms and so we are thrilled to have become the only distributor able to offer the full range of Teams devices from Yealink. The clear message is that if you have a Microsoft UC environment to address, you should be talking to Kathea”, says Peter Cowen, CEO of Kathea. For the last 20 years Kathea has proudly represented some of the top brands in the communication, collaboration, audio visual and workspace technology arenas, offering high value-added brand representation with deep skills and service competence, combined with efficient distribution to over 800 partners.  “The appointment of Kathea as the authorized distributor of Yealink solutions for Skype for Business and Microsoft Teams, will help drive our company’s mission to empower every person and organization to achieve more, through offering intelligent communications solutions to end users across the globe. Kathea has been a leading distributor of voice, audio visual, video conferencing and workspace management solutions for the last 20 years, and we are eager to be extending our relationship with these new offerings,” says Timothy Lothering, Architect for Skype & Teams at Microsoft South Africa. Yealink is a global leading unified communications solution provider that researches, develops and sells devices that are optimised for various Microsoft platforms such as Skype for Business, Office 365 and Teams. This range includes video and voice/audio devices that cover a variety of scenarios including offices, huddle rooms and large conference rooms. Kathea and Yealink will be working very closely on optimizing the devices for multiple Microsoft UC platforms in order to offer the most suitable solution to users in the market. “We are pleased to have Kathea join our partner network and expand our availability of Yealink’s new Voice and Video Solutions for Microsoft Teams and Skype for Business.” Says Stone Lu, Vice President of Yealink. “Through the combination of our delicate products and sophisticated services and support from Kathea, we are able to offer solutions with great value to the market of South Africa.”     Yealink has a few more exciting Microsoft Skype for Business and Teams products lined up for release later this year. Benjamin Liebenberg, Yealink & Microsoft Product Specialist at Kathea This article was published in partnership with Kathea.