MyBroadband Insights has released its Q4 2018 Mobile Network Quality Report, which shows that people in Gauteng enjoy the highest average mobile speeds. The report is based on 383,479 speed tests which were performed by thousands of MyBroadband Android Speed Test App users across South Africa between 1 October 2018 and 31 December 2018. To ensure a neutral testing environment, MyBroadband’s speed test servers are hosted in Teraco’s vendor-neutral data centres. The report shows that South Africa had an average mobile download speed of 22.18Mbps during the period, while the average upload speed was 9.03Mbps. This large data set makes it possible to look at the network performance of South Africa’s mobile operators at a suburb level. For this analysis, MyBroadband looked at all suburbs where a minimum of 100 tests were performed and selected the five best and worst suburbs per operator. We also added the radio network vendors which are used by the mobile operators in these suburbs. There are four companies which provide South African mobile operators with radio network equipment – Huawei, Nokia, Ericsson, and ZTE. In most cases mobile operators use two vendors for their radio network, with two exceptions – Telkom only uses Huawei, while MTN uses Huawei, ZTE, and Ericsson. It should be noted that this network performance comparison only compares radio access vendors. The overall network performance can also be influenced by core network architecture, backhaul capacity, network optimisation, and other factors. MTN’s network performed better than its competitors, with higher average download and upload speeds in all top neighbourhoods. Ericsson and Huawei shared the spoils when it came to network equipment vendors for the top MTN neighbourhoods. Vodacom had a solid network performance, with Huawei providing radio network equipment in all the top neighbourhoods and Nokia being the vendor in all the worst neighbourhoods. Cell C’s network performed poorly in comparison with its competitors, especially when looking at the top neighbourhoods. Telkom had a mixed-bag of results, and since it relies on Huawei for its full network both the best and worst neighbourhoods are supplied by this vendor. Rain had a strong performance in some neighbourhoods and a very poor performance in others. Huawei and Nokia shared the spoils when it came to top performing areas, while Nokia was the vendor in all worst performing areas.