ASUS has unveiled it latest gaming PC – the ROG Mothership. The “desktop replacement” is a laptop-like device which features a detachable keyboard and moveable screen. ASUS said the design lets the machine draw in more air and cool better, while at the same time it lets users place the screen and keyboard in a position of their choosing. “The exquisitely machined aluminum chassis frames a 17.3-inch Full HD IPS-level display with a 144Hz refresh rate, 3ms GTG response time display featuring Nvidia G-Sync powered by the new GeForce RTX 2080 GPU,” said ASUS. This is on top of its Intel Core i9-8950HK processor, NVMe SSDs, and up to 64GB of RAM. While the Mothership is punted as a desktop replacement, its core function is still portable gaming. The reason for moving away from the traditional bulky laptop form factor of powerful gaming notebooks is so the PC does not have an “unnecessarily rigid” deployment on a desk. “The limiting legacy blueprint of previous designs not only limit cooling, but also locks the user into a fixed position that’s really only required for use on a lap,” said ASUS. ASUS added that research shows gamers “prefer their keyboards off to the side and at an angle” when playing, and a laptop design does not support this. The new detachable backlit keyboard and hinged kickstand on the back of the Mothership allow users to adjust the position of the PC until they are comfortable. When disconnected from the body, the keyboard uses a 2.4GHz connection or included USB-C cable to continue working. The main body – which houses the display and the hardware – is made from aluminum, while the keyboard housing is almost full aluminum, too. On the cooling side, ASUS has fitted the Mothership with air cooling via dual fans, while a shield prevents the heat of the CPU and GPU affecting the display. As mentioned, the Mothership has an Intel Core i9-8950HK CPU, running at 4.3GHz. This can go up to 4.8GHz in Turbo mode. This is paired with up to 64GB of DDR4 RAM and an “industry-leading” NVMe RAID 0 SSD array. “The three-drive HyperDrive Extreme array in the ROG Mothership hangs two SSDs directly off the CPU, bypassing the DMI bottleneck and enabling peak throughput up to 8,700MB/s. All three drives are covered by a heat spreader that improves cooling for sustained storage loads,” said ASUS. Topping this all off is the graphics card – a GeForce RTX 2080 with 8GB of memory. No pricing or exact launch date for the Mothership was announced, but it is expected to ship in Q2 2019.     