Every year starts with excitement as many new tech trends and technologies emerge that are fast changing the way we work and interact with others. In fact, technology is revolutionising the way we do business. Cloud-based communications have proven to be a substantial driving force in the modern world. It has given the workplace improved operational system capability, flexibility and simplicity and has completely overhauled business telephony, Euphoria director John Woollam believes that as we move into 2019 this is the best time to get your business heading in the right direction. “That means choosing a business telco provider that can give you a competitive advantage by giving you the best service, leading tech and saving you money, all in one comprehensive package”. Euphoria is an innovative, cloud-based, cost effective business telephone system that offers unprecedented control and automated operational efficiency. It boasts a built-in Telephone Management System (TMS) that provides in-depth insights into any business. Companies can now assess their call costs and determine exactly which users and departments are costing them the most. “Euphoria can save customers up to 50% on their monthly business phone spend. More importantly, there are no more unnecessary long-term contracts, high call costs and opaque billing. We’re so confident in our system and service that we don’t need to tie our customers into lengthy 3 – 5 year contracts – our agreements are month-to-month,” says Woollam. Euphoria is the ideal solution for existing and emerging workforces who demand constant connectivity and productivity from almost anywhere. It is a scalable solution for 3 to 1000+ extensions, it can grow with the business or be easily scaled down in the unfortunate event of retrenchments. “Our system can be easily adjusted in real-time without any new hardware requirements or getting stuck with expensive hardware that you’ve paid for but no longer need. The flexibility we give you means increased peace of mind in turbulent economic times,” he adds. Woollam says Euphoria was built in South Africa for the South African market. “We didn’t import tech that wasn’t entirely suited to the local business landscape. Instead, we built a powerful and simple system that is designed to make your like easier. Our Telephone Management System is feature-rich and offers everything you could ever want from a business phone system and loads more. This includes call centre functionality complete with outbound dialers and agent management,” he says. Euphoria offers a host of other useful benefits that one can activate without having to rely on anyone else. These include compliant call recording and setting budget limits on extensions – which you can switch on and off at the click of a mouse. The best thing about Euphoria is its unmatched customer service. The company has over 4000+ happy customers across the country including well-known brands like Debonairs Pizza, Vumatel, Just Property, Mr. Delivery, Dark Fibre Africa and Yuppiechef. “We are proud that our very first customer, Altech Isis, is still with us 8 years after we first launched the company in 2011. We think that is great testament to the kind of service we offer. They joined us on a month-to-month contract and nearly a decade later they are still here. That speaks volumes,” he concludes. To find out more about how Euphoria Telecom can improve the efficiency and productivity of your business call them today on 021 200 0500. Their friendly staff are on hand to give you a quote or to arrange a free demonstration. This article was published in partnership with Euphoria.