A MyBroadband reader recently purchased tickets for the Cannabis Expo in Pretoria, with the aim of learning more about the “kine bud”. The ticket vendor for the show was Computicket, and the reader bought two tickets through their website. After selecting the tickets and paying for them, he was presented with a message which said he must collect the tickets from a Computicket or a Checkers store. The Checkers collection point is a Money Market counter, which is typically located near the entrance of a store. The reader did not want to collect the tickets, however, and had planned to print them at home. After searching the ticket page without success, he called Computicket to find out how he could print the Cannabis Expo tickets. A Computicket agent stated that the “print at home” option was not available for the tickets, however, and he must therefore collect them. The reader then went to his local Checkers in the Waterfall area the next day and made his way to the Money Market till – only to find a queue of four people in front of him. After waiting 30 minutes and the queue not moving, he left the store – writing off the R300 he had spent on the pair of tickets. The reader shared his experience with MyBroadband, and we contacted Shoprite – which oversees Computicket and Checkers – to find out if anything different could have been done in the situation. Specifically, why could the tickets for the show not be printed at home. Shoprite told MyBroadband that the “print at home” option for tickets purchase through their platform is part of a package which event organisers must agree to. This functionality is therefore only available for certain events, and can be accessed under “Delivery Options” on the event booking screen. “With reference to the Cannabis Expo, the print at home function wasn’t available based on the client’s request,” said Shoprite. The reason for not offering a print option has to do with the event’s infrastructure, size and capacity, staffing, and the security grading assigned to the event by the operations committee, said Shoprite. The operations committee includes the police, the organiser, the venue, and other service providers. “Other considerations include ticket scalping – the unauthorised reselling of tickets – and the fact that the print at home tickets are easier to duplicate.” This includes printing multiples or making copies of the original printed ticket, it said. “An event organiser may therefore consider not making the facility available, as is the case for the Rugby Sevens, for example,” said Shoprite. The company also apologised for the inconvenience the reader experienced. Asked about its plans to streamline the ticket collection process, Shoprite said that the Money Market at Checkers stores offer a variety of services – hence there will be queues on occasions. “Regrettably it won’t be possible to give one service preference above another, especially as stringent checks have to be done when collecting event tickets.”