The latest version of ESET NOD32 Antivirus, ESET Internet Security and ESET Smart Security Premium that offers fortified multilayered protection, enhanced IoT protection, product referral and a new security report feature is released today. Users can rely on the best balance of speed, detection and usability acknowledged by multiple testing bodies to protect their constantly-connected devices. It is predicted that by 2025, there will be over 75 billion connected devices worldwide – from smart home devices to e-health gadgets – this poses a real threat to cybersecurity. As more connected devices are introduced to everyday life, the amount of personal and sensitive data shared increases, as does the number of entry points into networks. “Hackers will use this rise in the number of internet-connected devices to their advantage and users, therefore, cannot afford to neglect taking security measures. The addition of IoT protection to our home user product suite means our customers can be safe in the knowledge that their devices, and the home routers they connect to, are properly secured,” says Carey van Vlaanderen, CEO at ESET Southern Africa. Similar to previous years, to fight all these threats users can choose from ESET NOD32 Antivirus for basic protection, ESET Internet Security with additional layers of security on top of the basic anti-malware solution, and ESET Smart Security Premium for users seeking the most advanced protection and features on the market. This includes technologies such as password manager and banking protection. Built on machine learning and three decades of knowledge – all ESET products run unnoticed in the background. The key offering provides users with comfortable and ultra-fast scanning without impacting the operating system or their experience. “We built our products to provide an advantage over native Windows protection to show users how a multilayered approach to cybersecurity can battle the toughest of threats out there,” said van Vlaanderen. The latest version offers new features as well as improvements to existing ones including: This article was published in partnership with ESET.