When we were young, our parents set certain rules to keep us safe, such as  “lock the doors!” and “don’t speak to strangers!” However, we live in a very different time than a decade or two ago, which means the rules we need to set to keep our children safe are very different. In the digital age, children are exposed to the online world daily. And even though the world has been practicing the art of parenting for thousands of years, when it comes to digital, many feel helpless in trying to protect their children. The reality is that as connectivity becomes the standard, children are exposed to more and more online threats. However, they’re not always aware of the dangers that lurk on the Internet – dangers that put both themselves and the home at risk. This concerns many parents, and rightfully so. As the latest version of Norton’s Cyber Security Insights Report shows, eight in 10 parents admit that they worry about their child’s safety online. And they have a point. Even innocuous features could present an unwelcome window into your child’s movements. This includes bullies pin-pointing your child’s exact location by previewing their publicly shared pictures, or cyber criminals working out your family’s daily routines by watching you through compromised webcams. You may even have seen the recent experiment where hackers were able to unlock a garage through a connected child’s doll. In comparison, that could be the digital equivalent of your child leaving the front door open. If you have a connected home device with poor security, any information on that home network could be meddled with or used for extortion once compromised. With that in mind, it is critical that your children know what to do and what not to do in order to protect themselves. Research shows the most common method parents use to ensure their children’s Internet safety is by limiting access to certain websites, checking browser history and setting parental controls. The problem, however, is that over half of parents say that children will do dangerous things online, regardless of safeguards parents put in place. Rules alone may not always be enough. When it comes to protecting your children, education is key. According to Sohini Nathoo, Norton Manager for Africa, there are a couple of key things you can put in place to encourage safer behaviour online: Online safety is an ongoing conversation. Be curious about the sites, apps and services that your children use, and talk about them together. The key is to empower your children to make the right decisions so that everyone stays safe. Norton can help you help your kids explore, learn, and enjoy their connected world safely through Norton Security Premium. It offers proactive protection and parental controls to safeguard their online privacy, while allowing you to see your kids’ online activities at a glance or by email notifications and alerts, so you know when it’s time to talk. To find out more, visit the Norton website, contact our distributor Rectron on 011 203 1000. This article was published in partnership with Norton.