Huawei has launched its P Smart 2019 in South Africa, offering great improvements over the previous-generation model at an attractive price. The P Smart is not a flagship device like the company’s P20 smartphones, but offers a similar experience to users shopping for a mid-range handset. The 2018 model easily met this goal, becoming the best-selling device in its price range for eight months in South Africa, said Huawei. Huawei has refreshed the specifications and design of the device, but its strategy of converting mid-range smartphone owners to its value offerings remains the focus. The Huawei P Smart 2019 has a price tag of R4,999, but includes an array of flagship-like features – many of which are absent from competing phones. Huawei provided MyBroadband with a P Smart 2019, and we were impressed by its overhauled design and hardware.  The P Smart’s design has been overhauled compared to the previous model, and now sports a full-screen display complete with a “Dewdrop” notch for the front-facing camera. It sports a 89.6% screen-to-body ratio and is South Africa’s first smartphone with this “Dewdrop” display design. This makes the device almost bezel-less, apart from a narrow chin below the screen. It’s not just the chassis which has received an upgrade, however. Huawei’s P Smart 2019 ships with Android 9.0 out of the box and includes a selection of great hardware features, including face unlock and gesture controls. This is great news for Android fans on a budget, as many flagship devices have not yet received support for Android 9.0 in South Africa. The P Smart 2019 also includes a number of AI camera features which can be used to greatly improve the quality of images taken with its dual-camera system. Despite its 6.21-inch screen, the Huawei P Smart feels comfortable to hold in a single hand and the inclusion of gesture control makes it easy to navigate the display.  The Huawei P Smart 2019 competes with other mid-range devices like the Samsung Galaxy A6 Plus, offering impressive specifications for its price segment. The device’s HiSilicon Kirin 970 and 3GB of RAM deliver solid performance, with Android 9.0 running smoothly on its high-resolution display. Another major advantage the P Smart 2019 has over its competitors is its 64GB of storage, expandable via microSD, which is considerably higher than many competitors. It has an impressive camera system too, with a 16MP front-facing camera and a dual-lens camera system on the rear. Both cameras include AI features such as scene recognition, selfie beautifying, and more.  The Huawei P Smart 2019 is a great mid-range device for those who want flagship features but aren’t willing to shell out for expensive high-end phones. With its Android 9.0 support, high-quality AI camera systems, bezel-less display, and large storage, the Huawei P Smart 2019 should meet most demands. The P Smart 2019 is available on 1 February from retailers and operators across the country. 