MultiChoice has warned of an increasing number of scams targeting South African DStv customers, and it has listed some of the most prevalent attacks. “There’s been a surge in the number of scams targeting our DStv customers in recent weeks,” MultiChoice said. “Scammers use various tactics to either defraud customers of their money or to get customers’ personal information.” One of the most prevalent scams at the moment preys on DStv customers who want to upgrade to the platform’s Premium package. This scam sees criminals offering DStv customers an upgrade to DStv Premium for a single fee, which they say will give the user one year of Premium access. “Scammers are approaching our customers offering them DStv Premium upgrades,” MultiChoice said. “They offer DStv Premium for a fixed once-off fee per year where the customer pays the fee directly to the scammer.” After this payment is made, the scammer pockets the money and leaves the victim without any Premium upgrade. “Please be aware that you can upgrade your DStv account online at any time, do not believe anyone claiming to upgrade your account on your behalf,” MultiChoice said. “Always make your payments directly to MultiChoice through these payment methods.” This is not the only way scammers are trying to cheat DStv customers out of their money – there are a variety of other scams which are on the rise. One type of phishing attack sees scammers inform DStv customers by email that they have won a cash gift card or prize money from a MultiChoice competition, and asks the recipient to provide their personal details to claim the prize. Other DStv customers have received an SMS claiming to be from MultiChoice which demands payment for a DStv Explora account. The SMS threatens action if payment is not made immediately and includes banking details. “This SMS is not from DStv,” MultiChoice said. “Please do NOT make payment into any bank account or through any link supplied.” Scammers posing as DStv accredited installers are also offering customers unrealistic DStv services like free package upgrades or free DStv for life for a minimal once-off fee. “DStv offers six subscription packages that you can choose from,” MultiChoice said. “If someone offers you a discounted DStv subscription at a once-off payment, treat this with suspicion and check it with us.” “To check if someone is a DStv accredited installer – ask them for their DStv ID card, which specifies their qualification as well as the accredited company they work for.” MultiChoice added that there are also scams spread over social media posing as recruitment ads for the company. The company said that one of its recruiters does use Facebook and Twitter to advertise roles, but each of these advertisements has a reference number which can be verified with the recruiter in question. “Please note that neither MultiChoice nor its suppliers will ever offer to drive you to an interview,” MultiChoice said. “Please be vigilant.”