Huawei launched its Watch GT 2 in September alongside its flagship Mate 30 smartphones. While the Mate 30 series has not arrived in South Africa, the Watch GT 2 is available from a variety of local retailers. This smartwatch is an impressive device which offers a significant upgrade over the previous-generation Watch GT. Here is how the Watch GT 2 compares to the previous-generation Watch GT. The Watch GT 2 offers significant performance improvements compared to the original Watch GT. The GT 2 uses the powerful Huawei Kirin A1 chipset and offers improved memory – 4GB compared to the previous generation’s 128MB. This means that users can store up to 500 songs on the Watch GT 2 rather than needing to store them on your smartphone. It also offers Bluetooth 5.1 – an improvement on the previous-generation 4.2 version of Bluetooth that was available on the Watch GT. Huawei has also implemented a microphone within the Watch GT 2 46mm version which enables Bluetooth calling – a feature that was not available on the original device. Another new feature is the always-on display that dims if you’re not actively using your Watch GT 2 without completely turning off. The Huawei Watch GT 2 offers an incredible two weeks of battery life in its 46mm version – the same as the original Watch GT despite substantial improvements to performance and features. This is in large part due to its improved Li-Ion 455mAh battery compared to the 420mAh battery the original version used. The Watch GT 2 places a larger emphasis on the health of its users with new and improved features dedicated to well-being. Huawei TruSeen has been upgraded to version 3.5 to offer heart rate measurement that is more efficient and accurate. This feature monitors your heart rate whenever you are wearing the watch – even if you are sleeping. The personalised sports coach feature helps you through your exercises to ensure that you are working out efficiently and safely. This “coach” will even take you through a seven-stage workout where it will tell you how you’re doing, and provide post-workout data that informs you how your workout went. The Watch GT 2 offers a personal workout guide and also lets you track detailed metrics such as oxygen consumption, aerobic and anaerobic exercise effort, recovery time, training intensity, and overview judgements on your training effectiveness. While the Watch GT already offered numerous fitness features, including some of the above, the Watch GT 2 takes your health to the next level. Both smartwatches are made of a stainless steel frame and also have a ceramic back. Huawei’s Watch GT 2 is available in both sport and classic models, both of which have thinner bezels and a slimmer design than the original Watch GT. Both come in 46mm versions, although Huawei has managed to reduce the weight of the 46mm Watch GT 2. The Watch GT 2 also comes in a smaller 42mm version, which is convenient as an option for those who prefer smaller watches.