MTN has had a great year, delivering big improvements in network quality and investing significant amounts into expanding its footprint across South Africa. MyBroadband asked about the progress it had made on its network and business this year, as well as what its biggest successes of 2019 were. “This year marks 25 years since the birth of a democratic South Africa and also marks 25 years of consistent innovation and quality network delivery by MTN,” the operator told MyBroadband. “MTN has been privileged to play a leading role in connecting the lives of many consumers at home and across Africa, and continues to focus on shaping the very best digital futures for all Africans.” The mobile network said that its large, high-quality, and ever-expanding network was key to its growth and success. “MTN believes that building a high-performing network lies at the heart of its strategy of transforming the customer experience,” the company said. “It is for this reason that MTN has invested over R50 billion over the last five years to expand its 3G and LTE network footprint across the country.” In 2019, MTN reached 95% 4G coverage across South Africa – delivering high-capacity 4G in cities and broad 3G coverage in rural areas. It said this gives almost all of South Africa access to new online services through a global, strong-performing network. “This year also marks another year of MTN keeping the people of South Africa connected and having a positive impact on their lives,” the mobile operator said. “We continued to drive the digitization of schools through MTN Foundation initiatives. This year alone we handed over eight multimedia centres across the country.” “We also launched the Feed-The-Monster educational app, an app that addresses all aspects of reading and bridges the gap between literacy skills and fluent reading,” MTN said. Social media has also been a major driver for the company’s interaction with customers. “As a network operator that continuously strives to offer a distinct service to its customers, MTN has introduced a first-of-its-kind subsidized 3G feature phone that comes with free WhatsApp, Twitter, YouTube, and Facebook for six months,” the company said. “Through these subsidies, we help connect customers to broadband who would otherwise not have been connected.”