Pargo has partnered with several of South Africa’s most popular e-commerce companies to offer its Click and Collect service to South African customers. The festive season is approaching, which means that it is time to begin shopping for gifts. To this end, South Africans are increasingly using e-commerce platforms to get great deals from the comfort of their homes. When it comes to delivery, Pargo has a powerful solution that makes it easy to receive your online order without having to worry about delivery times and locations. Pargo’s Click and Collect solution lets customers collect their parcels from their nearest Click and Collect collection point. This is particularly useful during the festive season because it ensures that you don’t have to worry about being at home when the delivery arrives at your door. Click and Collect also ensures that you don’t run into an awkward situation where the recipient of a gift is the person at home to sign for it when it is delivered. There are over 2,500 Pargo collection points situated across most major towns in South Africa, including Clicks stores and Caltex garages. Using Click and Collect is easy – simply shop for your favourite products online, select your preferred Pargo point in the delivery section of the checkout process, and wait for the SMS or email notification that will tell you when your parcel has arrived. Through its advanced tracking system, Pargo makes sure there are no missed deliveries or delays. Pargo has partnered with several of South Africa’s most popular e-commerce platforms – including OneDayOnly, Raru, Faithful2Nature, and Cape Union Mart – to offer its Click and Collect service to South African customers. This means that shopping at these e-commerce stores allows customers to take advantage of the innovative Pargo Click and Collect service. As these companies gear up for the festive period, this is what they had to say about their preparations. Cape Union Mart said it is the leading destination in South Africa for all things outdoor and adventure. “We stock 100’s of leading local and international brands under one roof – including K-Way, KEEN, and Deuter – making your life that much easier this festive season,” said Cape Union Mart. This festive season Cape Union Mart has created a dedicated gifting category to ensure that online customers have all they need in a single place. Cape Union Mart also categorised its online offering into price ranges so that they can cater to the specific gifting needs of their customers. Cape Union Mart said that its partnership with Pargo will ensure that its customers can enjoy their holidays to the fullest, rather than having to wait at home for their parcel. “With Click and Collect our customers are able to collect their parcels from any one of our stores nationwide,” said Cape Union Mart. Collecting parcels from a Cape Union Mart store saves customers money, as they are not charged delivery fees for their purchase. Cape Union Mart also highlighted that Click and Collect offers customers quick and easy returns should a customer be unhappy with the product they have purchased. Matthew Leighton of OneDayOnly said that the innovative e-commerce store stands out from the competition due to its unique business model. “Because of our unusual and unexpected product offerings, as well as our massive discounts, OneDayOnly is the perfect place to go from zero to complete on your Christmas and festive shopping.” OneDayOnly has spent an extensive amount of time building and testing its traffic capabilities, and has factored a considerable increase in traffic compared to last year. “Despite this, we fully expect to be able to deliver a seamless shopping experience as normal.” Part of the reason for this is OneDayOnly’s partnership with Pargo, said Leighton. “Pargo is a valuable service year-round, but especially so in the festive season.” “With so many public holidays and people taking leave, the difficult job of doing Christmas deliveries becomes that much harder for courier companies.” Leighton added that Pargo solves this by ensuring that customers don’t need to schedule a delivery that may happen in the morning or afternoon. Since OneDayOnly partnered with Pargo a few years ago, it has seen a steady increase of users, Leighton confirmed. Faithful to Nature’s Simon Bowes said that the business is committed to making sustainable living simple and accessible to all. “We have curated a great selection of festive products that are as good for you as they are the planet,” said Bowes. Faithful to Nature has joined in on the festive celebrations with its advent calendar, where it reveals an exciting offer for its customers every day until 20 December. To deal with the festive season, Faithful to Nature has increased its server capacity and improved its data architecture. It is also increasing its staff contingent over the festive period to meet demand – particularly in its warehousing and fulfilment facility. “We are excited about the next 12 months as more mainstream consumers are becoming cognisant around issues of sustainability and willing to vote with their pockets.” Faithful to Nature offers Pargo’s Click and Collect solution, giving customers a convenient alternative to home deliveries. This makes it even more convenient and affordable to take advantage of Faithful to Nature’s great online deals. Neil Smith, director at Raru, said that the e-commerce store has added PayFlex to its payment options ahead of the festive season. “This a new way to split your purchase into 4 interest-free payments over six weeks,” said Smith. Smith added that Raru has streamlined its offering by focusing on its stronger lines – including musical instruments, board games, and Funko Pop vinyl figures. Pargo has offered numerous benefits to its Raru’s consumers, said Smith. “The first is being able to collect at their own convenience from over 2,500+ locations across the whole of South Africa.” “Not all customers are always readily available for couriers to deliver directly to them.” Smith said that there are also significant savings to be had by choosing Pargo’s “Click and Collect” option. “The cost of Pargo, especially to non-main centre areas, is significantly better than what the courier costs would be,” he said. Smith said that Raru has had a great relationship over the past years, with Pargo offering great services. Pargo has helped the aforementioned e-commerce businesses streamline their delivery processes through their Click and Collect product. If you would like your business to be next, contact Pargo today!