Eskom has become the poster child of state capture and failed state-owned enterprises, and is by far the biggest risk to the South African economy. The power utility’s debt is sitting at a staggering R450 billion, with 62% of this debt government-guaranteed. Debt, however, is only one of its problems. It is massively overstaffed, it lacks critical skills, it has ageing power stations, and its maintenance is a mess. Eskom’s dismal state was in full display this month when load-shedding hit a record stage 6, plunging the country into darkness. Eskom’s power generation capacity deteriorated so significantly that it is actively encouraging clients not to use its product to lower peak demand. This, coupled with an erratic electricity supply, means that Eskom is selling less electricity and is therefore making less money. More companies and residential users are also moving to solar energy, which is a further blow to the company. The impact on Eskom is clearly visible. Over the last financial year, the company posted a net loss of R20.7 billion. While the government is promising to turn Eskom around, most South Africans are sceptical, as they have heard it all before. The company continues to be dogged by exceptionally poor governance, corruption, maladministration, and cadre deployment, with no end in sight. According to economists at the Efficient Group, load-shedding cost the country R8.5 billion of real, inflation-adjusted rands this year. The group’s “cost of load-shedding model” considers GDP from the supply side and uses assumptions about the ability of an industry to mitigate the cost of downtime. “Certain industries and the businesses within it can relocate during times of load-shedding to continue business as usual,” Efficient Group economist Francois Stofberg said. “Others can use generators more cost-efficiently, and still others can shift production and even consumption patterns to a later stage,” he said. Stofberg said that the group’s model assumes an average downtime of seven hours a day – which is equivalent to something between stage 3 and 4 on a consistent basis. “Using these assumptions, we find that the cost of load-shedding has reduced our GDP growth by roughly 0.30% in 2019. This translates to R8.5 billion of real, inflation-adjusted rands,” he said. To give you an idea of how much money Eskom loses each second, MyBroadband created an Eskom loss counter, pictured below. 