Vodacom has announced a partnership with Microsoft which allows its subscribers to purchase content from the Microsoft and Xbox stores with airtime. “Gamers, students and the small business community in South Africa can expect even more value from South Africa’s leading network, Vodacom, as they become the first mobile operator in Africa to make it simpler for its customers to buy content from the Microsoft and Xbox Stores, using their Vodacom account,” the network said. “The Microsoft partnership is the most recent addition to Vodacom’s Direct Charge to Bill (DCB) offering, joining the list of global video, music and gaming content partners.” This means that Vodacom customers can purchase gaming content through the Xbox Store and charge the purchase to their airtime or contract balance. Customers can also add apps and software from the Microsoft Store to their Vodacom account. “This proposition is a continuation of Vodacom’s efforts to ensure the best customer experience through a trustworthy, personalised, and digital experience,” said Vodacom. “Not only does the service allow for increased simplicity and safety in how Vodacom delivers premium content to our customers, but it will also bridge the gap to access of such content to the unbanked in South Africa.” This payment option removes the need to use a credit card, allowing those without bank accounts to access the software available through Microsoft’s platforms. This functionality also works for subscriptions, which means that you can purchase an Xbox Game Pass subscription with your airtime. “We are extremely excited about this partnership. It will provide value to small business customers, students and gamers, and in addition, it creates accessibility to an extensive library of content, apps and software,” Microsoft said. “All this with the convenience of being able to pay for these products through your mobile phone bill.” As part of the launch, Vodacom will give away an Xbox One X console every day for nine days from 3 December.