Wealthy millennials – those earning more than R100,000 per month or have more than R16m in net assets – behave in noticeably different ways to their less-than-wealthy counterparts, who seem to be in a constant battle trying to keep their head above water. What’s more, they’ve developed financial habits that distinguish them from Generation X and Baby Boomers, those born between 1946 and 1985. Investing has become case in point. Being risk-averse is a hallmark of the generation that came of age during the Financial Crisis of 2009 – yet affluent millennials are investing in growth-focused assets more than ever before. Specifically, they embrace global investment opportunities that are generally outside of traditional go-to investments. We sat down with Sean Sanders, the CEO and co-founder of index-tracking crypto-investing platform Revix, to take a deeper dive into how the financial behaviour of wealthy SA millennials sets them apart from the rest of their generation. It makes sense that the wealthy, regardless of age, are more open to investing instead of saving – investing equates to wealth growth, whereas saving is simply wealth preservation. However, this trait has become particularly prominent amongst rich millennials. As the generation entering the workforce post-recession, most millennials are risk-averse when it comes to investing. In fact, according to a Capital One study, over 90% say they are wary of investing. Blackrock’s Global Investment Survey similarly uncovered an increasingly risk-averse mentality among millennials; it found that 85% of millennials consider themselves “conservative” when it came to risk tolerance, while a majority subset of that group pegged themselves as “very conservative.” By contrast, fewer than a third of baby boomers reported themselves as very conservative investors. Millennials’ diminished appetite for risk is also reflected in their investing patterns. The survey showed that, on average, only 15% of the millennial portfolio is invested in stocks, a sharp contrast to 24% for the baby boomers – an interesting outcome considering the older group is near retirement or already retired. However, wealthy millennials differ from their peers in that they embrace growth-focused investing. They’re noted to be more likely to exercise their wealth in alternative investment opportunities such as cryptocurrencies, tech stocks and venture capital funds. “Rather than being afraid of risk, and avoiding it entirely, many wealthy millennials have educated themselves on the necessity of risk when trying to grow wealth and make returns,” said Sanders. According to a study by OppenheimerFunds and Campden Research, ultra-high-net-worth millennials are taking more calculated risks with their investments. “Risk should be viewed differently for different people. For some, risk is not only price volatility, which we’ve come to use as a general proxy for investment risk. For others, risk could be choosing investments that don’t achieve certain return objectives or aren’t able to be sold and converted to cash quickly. Wealthy investors, both young and old, better understand risk and use this knowledge to build a stronger investment portfolio,” said Sanders. Money lying idle in a bank account is earning low to no interest. It’s not far off from, say, the Great Depression, when people stored their money under their mattresses. At the time, this was considered safer than trusting a bank – and although the millennial generation of recession babies probably don’t use their mattresses as a manner of saving, the emotional underpinnings aren’t that different. In general, millennials have yet to regain trust in investing money and therefore prefer to hold it in cash. But the safe approach might serve to be just the opposite if you’re young and have years to build up your retirement kitty. “Forgoing returns in the interest of ‘safety’ simply won’t deliver the returns you need to achieve your long-term goals. In fact, it would take an investor over 35 years to double his or her money in cash, assuming a long-term expected return of 2%,” said Sanders. He continues “This is likely not good news for their future, as it means they’re shutting themselves off from the historically higher returns investments yield long-term over cash and also squandering the compounding advantage of starting retirement planning earlier in life.” According to BlackRock’s survey, 65% of everyday millennials choose to stash their earnings in cash savings accounts, compared to 54% for older Boomers and Gen Xs. However, this figure falls below 20% when surveying wealthier millennials. This is a spine-chilling prospect, as the wealth gap will continuously grow larger every year due to the compounding of investment wealth, a basic function of saving§§s vs. investing amounts. Wealthier millennials understand this equation and use it to their advantage. Affluent millennials eagerly embrace disruption, according to an Edelman report. The report surveyed more than 1,000 millennials who have the equivalent of R2,000,000 in investable assets or an annual income of at least R1.4m. The report also states that “Affluent Millennials are bullish on new technologies and industry disruptors for achieving their investment goals”. According to the report, 25% of millennials use or hold cryptocurrency and 31% are interested in doing so. 75% believe that technological innovations, like blockchain, make the global financial system more secure. Some are buying cryptocurrencies over the long-term for retirement, according to Sanders. Millennials are also putting their money where their mouth is — the most popular millennial stock investments are all tech companies: Apple, Facebook, Amazon, Tesla, and Netflix, reported Howard Gold of MarketWatch. “It is clear that wealthier millennials are embracing both risk and technology to their advantage to grow their wealth even further,” said Sanders. Millennials have a number of options with regards to investing in the more standard type of investments, such as stocks. But, according to Sanders, there are very few ways for investors to get diversified access to alternative investments such as cryptocurrencies or venture capital funds. This is why he, together with his co-founder Louis Buys, created Revix, an alternative investment platform that gives investors an easy, responsible and transparent means to access growth-focussed investment opportunities. To find out more about how to invest with Revix, visit their website. This article was published in partnership with Revix.