A Telkom customer recently told MyBroadband about his three-month struggle to get a refund for an incorrect order. The customer said that Telkom failed to correct his account and charged him for months for a product which he had already returned. The latest complaint follows scores of similar incidents, where Telkom customers battled with upgrades and cancellations. In the first week of August, he ordered a single 10GB Top Up contract – which included a Mi-Fi router and 10GB of data for R169 per month over 24 months. Several days later, the package arrived, but the customer discovered he had been sent two routers and two SIM cards. He contacted Telkom the next day and arranged to return the extra router and SIM via courier. The package was collected from the customer on 19 August and successfully delivered to a Telkom warehouse on 22 August. A support consultant told him that the additional product had then been cancelled. In September 2019, however, the customer received an invoice which billed him for both packages. He said he called Telkom multiple times following the receipt of this invoice and was provided with a case number on 20 September. Telkom told him that the problem would be resolved within 72 hours, but the customer said he received no feedback, and eventually a debit order deducted the balance from his bank account for both products. The customer had to resort to reversing the debit order and making an EFT payment to Telkom for the correct amount of R169. However, he said he worried that this reversal may affect his credit record negatively – and arranged to have the full amount deducted the following month, with the incorrect charge included. The customer then contacted Telkom on various occasions during September, October, and November regarding his problem and said he spoke to four or five team leaders to no avail. He was provided with five case numbers over this period, some of which were marked as resolved, despite the billing issue not being fixed. The customer also provided Telkom with the waybills for the collection of the device as proof that the package had been returned, but this did not help. At one point, he was copied in on an email conversation between a Telkom team leader and the company’s cancellation department. He said a week had gone by before any reply was sent, and that was the last correspondence he had received via that channel. It was only after MyBroadband contacted Telkom for comment that the company reached out to the customer and resolved the billing issue. Telkom told him that the cancellation had been processed and that a dispute had been logged to waive the earlier fees.