Eskom has announced it is moving from stage 4 to stage 6 load-shedding at 18:00 on Monday 9 December 2019. “We regret and sincerely apologise that stage 4 load-shedding will move to Stage 6 load-shedding as from 18:00 today, as a result of a shortage of capacity,” Eskom said. “This follows a technical problem at Medupi Power Station impacting additional generation supply.” Eskom assured South Africans that there is no cause for alarm, adding that its teams would work through the night to restore power generation units. “We remind and assure customers that load-shedding at Stage 6 is no cause for alarm as the system is being effectively controlled,” the power utility said. “Stage 6 requires 6000MW to be rotationally loadshed.” “Eskom’s emergency response command centre and technical teams will be working through the night to restore units as soon as possible.” The power utility said that it is working closely with large industry to assist with further load curtailment. “After 2015, Eskom and the municipalities identified the need to extend the load-shedding stages up to stage 8 and the national code (NRS048-9 Ed 2) was subsequently updated,” Eskom said. “Even beyond these schedules, the System Operator will reduce demand in a manner that is controlled.” Eskom COO Jan Oberholzer blamed the heavy rains and flooding in Mpumalanga for the lack of power. He added that the situation will be assessed again at 23:00 tonight to see if stage 6 load-shedding can be reduced. Oberholzer said South Africans can expect load-shedding to continue for the rest of the week, but could not say at which level. Stage 6 load-shedding means that Eskom needs to shed approximately 6000MW, which translates into more frequent power cuts. Eskom explained that the load-shedding schedule will differ from one municipality to the other. While some municipalities opted for increasing the duration of cutting the power to a neighbourhood, others prefer to increase the frequency rather than the duration. This means that households and businesses will experience either longer power cuts or more power cuts per day. We regret and sincerely apologise that stage 4 loadshedding will move to Stage 6 loadshedding as from 18:00 today, as a result of a shortage of capacity. This follows a technical problem at Medupi Power Station impacting additional generation supply. https://t.co/Nxo0ltbuee pic.twitter.com/YXdfI0PzrM — Eskom Hld SOC Ltd (@Eskom_SA) December 9, 2019 