Technology company iiDENTIFii has been named as one of the country’s top digital innovators in the prestigious Sunday Times Top 100 Companies Awards. iiDENTIFii won the Digital Innovation Award 2019 for its world-class technology designed to combat fraud and identity theft. The digital innovation categories, sponsored by JSE-listed technology group BCX, recognise the most innovative small, medium and large enterprises and the most transformational digital projects. “The award entailed writing a comprehensive submission, then the finalists took part in the BCX Digital Warriors challenge, which was a ‘Dragon’s Den’ type interview with directors from diverse leading companies,” said co-CEO Gur Geva, “It was a tough process, and we are thrilled to have won.” iiDENTIFii is a technology platform that uses artificial intelligence and machine learning in a facial recognition system. The iiDENTIFii technology platform enables companies to confirm that online customers are indeed alive and who they say they are. iiDENTIFii compares the image in a passport or an ID book with a ‘selfie’ taken by the potential customer. The technology also accesses images held by the Department of Home Affairs and triangulates the three photographs in real-time. Its remote biometric digital verification technology can authenticate and approve any customer in under 30 seconds, with an industry-beating rate of accuracy. The company was created to protect and secure companies, governments and individuals against the massive financial losses caused by identity theft. “Fraud costs trillions of dollars to world economies annually and businesses are buckling under the weight of fraud-related losses due to identity theft. For consumers whose identity is stolen, the impact can cause financial and emotional trauma,” said Geva. Geva said that the current process of confirming someone’s identity is outdated and antiquated. “We have built a robust technology platform that can prove liveness, authenticate and verify a person’s identity from any location, using any smartphone, tablet, or laptop,” he said. “We have delivered a game-changing facial recognition and liveness detection platform that is resilient, scalable and is legally compliant for banks, retailers, financial institutions and auditing firms.” iiDENTIFii’s technology is already being used at scale by local and global banks, and is now being adopted by  online retailers, insurance companies, healthcare providers and businesses that need to confirm the identity of online users. Winners of the Sunday Times Top 100 Companies were announced at a gala dinner and the full results were published in the Sunday Times on November 10. This article was published in partnership with iiDENTIFii.