Cell C has been under significant strain this year, but the company said its turnaround plan is progressing well and it looks forward to the year ahead. After a difficult year which saw the mobile operator posting a loss and being forced to implement a radical turnaround strategy, Cell C said it is taking steps towards recovery. A major component of this turnaround strategy is its expanded roaming agreement with MTN, which will see it rely more on the bigger network’s infrastructure to deliver connectivity to customers. Cell C said the implementation of the expanded roaming agreement was one of its biggest successes in 2019. Speaking to MyBroadband, the company said it was looking forward to implementing this agreement in 2020. “What we are looking forward to in 2020 is the rollout and implementation of our MTN agreement which will enable us to really solidify our product and service offering to customers all over the country,” Cell C told MyBroadband. “We are obviously still focussing on our turnaround strategy, which includes improving our operational efficiencies, our liquidity, and the recapitalisation of the business.” Additionally, Cell C said it was set to launch a range of “exciting new products” next year. “Customers should be on the lookout for some exciting new products throughout the coming year, which we obviously cannot share at this stage, but we know customers will love them,” Cell C said. “We will also be focussing on continuously improving our systems and products, ensuring we create the best value for our customers.” Cell C added that it would announce the Innovation Challenge winners in 2020, and it is working closely with these SMEs and its procurement department to continue the challenge and get more businesses on board. “On the community front, we are continuing our skills development programmes – empowering and upskilling the youth as well as our own employees – and we are looking to grow our campaign against gender-based violence through the establishment of a gender forum,” the company said.