HP Axiz is bringing the world’s first cartridge-free laser printer to South Africa. Thanks to this cartridge-free system, you can work faster and lower operational costs. HP’s Neverstop printer range is therefore designed for users who print a lot and regularly struggle with empty toners. The HP Neverstop range offers a variety of significant advantages to those who own it. You can save up to 80% of your usual HP toner spend thanks to the lower reload costs for HP laser printing compared to HP toner cartridge printers. The ground-breaking design of the Neverstop’s reload kit also means that you can restore toner levels in seconds – minimising the inconvenience of needing to reload. You can print up to ten times more pages straight out of the box than traditional HP laser printers – meaning that you can hit the ground running. The HP Neverstop range is built out of over 25% recycled plastic, and its toner reload kit is made of up to 75% recycled plastic. There are two options available to South Africans – the Neverstop Laser Wireless 1,000w, and the Neverstop Laser Wireless MFP 1,200w. The 1,000w version can handle up to 20,000 pages per month at a printing speed of 21 pages per minute. It has a standard input capacity of 150 sheets, and an output capacity of 100 sheets. As the name suggests, it supports Wi-Fi connectivity, as well as a maximum resolution of 600 x 600 DPI. The MFP 1,200w printer boasts similar printing capacities and specifications, but with the added bonus of offering copying and colour scanning capabilities. The HP Neverstop Laser Wireless range is available in South Africa. Both printers are available from Incredible Connection and the online HP shop, while the 1,000w version is also available on Takealot. The HP Neverstop Laser 1,000w printer is available for R3,999, and the MFP 1,200w version is available for R5,999. Get yours now from Axiz, the distribution leader in South Africa. Click here to find out more about these innovative first of a kind printer. This article was published in partnership with HP Axiz Neverstop.