Choosing the best-suited cloud-based video conferencing solution for your business can be a daunting exercise because of the sure volume of solutions available on the market today. Further, Grand View Research estimates that the global video conferencing market is expected to reach $6.7 billion by 2025 , expanding at a CAGR of 9.2% from 2018 to 2025 and the cloud portion of this is growing at over 10% year on year. “Video calling and conferencing in the cloud is a hugely attractive market for businesses, in part because the ‘cloud’ can evolve to meet both the application and the size of solution needed,” states Mandre Stander, Collaboration and Networking Channel Manager at Westcon-Comstor, Sub-Saharan Africa. “Modern users  opt to use WhatsApp calls or FaceTime over traditional network calling as it is not only cheaper, but adds the element of the visual call too. Similarly, meetings are shifting away from the boardroom and towards video calling / conferencing applications for ease of communication, and less unnecessary back and forth emails.” According to Stander, the simplicity of the available video calling solutions, like the Westcon-Comstor CloudCall cloud-based calling offering, means that customers can now communicate instantly and on the go without being anchored to an office or a traditional phone. More importantly, he says that the economies of scale, the reduction in physical infrastructure, and the flexibility of being able to upgrade at any time are particularly appealing for IT teams trying to cut down on expenses. Users should ideally approach a cloud video calling solution with the future in mind, selecting an offering that matches where a business needs to be in a few months or even years. This needs to factor in number of anticipated employees, endpoints needed, devices connected to the service and the space required to store the calls for future compliance and analytics. “Putting your voice and video applications in the cloud is not just about cost savings. Yes, that is a compelling reason, but cloud video conferencing architecture solves many of the issues and limitations of on-premise deployments. When hosting video calls on a cloud provider’s server, this gives a user immediate scalability, security, manageability, accessibility, and flexible pricing. Not always afforded by an on-premise solution and a lot of which the user needs to build themselves,” states Stander. If currently your only motive for using video conferencing is to upgrade your meetings, then you’re in for a range of bonus content. The new CloudCall solution from Westcon-Comstor provides customers with a cloud calling offering that packages Hardware-as-a-Service and Software-as-a-Service Communications and is delivered straight from the cloud. It has been built from scratch and is designed along with the power of Microsoft Teams and AudioCodes.  What’s more, it can be hosted on-premise or in the cloud if a customer has a particular requirement for it to be resident to the business. Customers don’t want to be locked into the solution they purchase for good; they want the option to be able to draw from best of breed applications like Microsoft Teams and be scalable in operation and costs. “We offer CloudCall not as a bundle, but a fully operational solution that a reseller can deploy at a customer site, and an end user can start communicating from instantly. In essence, it is a monetised cloud calling service that our partners can deploy, manage and capitalise on instantly,” he ends. Click here to learn more about CloudCall from Westcon-Comstor This article was published in partnership with Westcon Comstor.