MTN is one of the biggest mobile operators in South Africa, and it has focused heavily on building out its network to become the best in the country. 2019 has been a great year for the company, but it has big plans for the next year, including the rollout of new, personalised bundles, continued network expansion, and the integration of cutting-edge technology. MyBroadband asked MTN about its plans for 2020, and what technologies the company was most excited about leveraging in future. “This year marks 25 years since the birth of a democratic South Africa and also marks 25 years of consistent innovation and quality network delivery by MTN,” MTN told MyBroadband. “MTN has been privileged to play a leading role in connecting the lives of many consumers at home and across Africa, and continues to focus on shaping the very best digital futures for all Africans.” MTN said that the rise of IoT, artificial intelligence, and other emergent technologies continue to improve operational costs, which would aid it in its plans for continued growth. “The growth of the Internet of Things (IoT) ecosystem is radically transforming how enterprises conduct their operations. With the advent of applications such as artificial intelligence, robotics, augmented and virtual reality, organisations and enterprises are becoming more mechanized as they seek digital solutions to improve efficiencies and drive down operational costs,” MTN said. “MTN Business has been (and will continue) to be at the forefront of providing innovative solutions to assist its enterprise clients to meet their strategic objectives.” In addition to leveraging these new technologies, MTN said that it would also continue to offer great value to customers. MTN also said that it would launch new services across its Mobile Money and insurance platforms next year. “To ensure that our customer benefits from the latest innovation and fourth industrial revolution, MTN will continue to bring innovative and bold digital offerings to its customers.” “In 2020, MTN customers should anticipate getting more value through Mobile Money services, InsurTech products (Insurance), more tailored and personalised bundles, continued network infrastructure investment and expansion,” MTN said.