By Cheryl Otstott The holidays are here! With so much to do so little time, let the Small Business Resource Center help you out with templates to spread the cheer and get and stay organised into the New Year. With the holidays comes the release of the 2020 Xerox Calendar. I don’t know about you but I find it hard to believe that in about a week it will be Thanksgiving here in the US. Then it is just a short time until Hanukkah, Christmas, Kwanzaa, and the New Year. Just in time for all your holiday needs, I wanted to remind you about the free templates that you can print out. The free templates include the 2020 calendars in different formats, customisable calendars, holiday greeting cards for Christmas, Season’s Greetings, Hanukkah, and even a Kwanzaa card. These cards come in many styles and designs that are customisable to send the message you want to share with your customers, employees, co-workers, friends and family. Just navigate over to the Small Business Resource Center to find all these great templates and printouts. The new 2020 calendars are already available. This year’s theme is Destination Discovery. The new calendar is vibrant and colorful and comes in several formats. The calendars can make a great gift for your clients and customers and features beautiful pictures. Not only are calendars available but there are also planners in daily, weekly or monthly format in several designs. The planners make great gifts or just use them to keep yourself organised. Other templates include inspirational posters, flyers, business templates, education templates, certificates and so much more. All of these templates can be printed on your Xerox printer or multifunction device. Peruse the template site and see which items will work for you. The Small Business Resource Center is a wonderful source of documents for all types of business, education and holiday applications for big and small businesses alike. Imagine the possibilities! To find out more, visit the Altron Bytes Document Solutions website. This article was published in partnership with Altron Bytes Document Solutions.