Black Friday 2019 was busier than ever in South Africa, and local shoppers rushed to take advantage of great discounts at many stores across the country. Two of the biggest retailers in South Africa who offered Black Friday specials were Game and Makro. Both of these stores are owned by Massmart, and each offers a range of products – from high-end TVs to outdoor equipment and consumables. We spoke to Massmart communication manager Refilwe Boikanyo to get an idea of how Game and Makro’s Black Friday sales went this year. Boikanyo said that the company was still collating group figures, but it was able to share information for specific divisions. South Africans who shopped at Game and Makro bought a range of items across a number of categories, including TVs, laptops, and appliances. “In terms of top-selling lines at Game stores, their top five items were Televisions, Microwave ovens, Camping chairs, Laptops, and Cooler boxes, whilst their top-selling online products were Gaming, Refrigeration, Small appliances, DSTV and Camping chairs,” Boikanyo said. Samsung was the most popular brand amongst television buyers, and both the 58-inch and 65-inch sizes sold extremely well. “As the leading destinations for TVs, the Samsung 58-inch Smart UHD TV was the top-selling TV at Game and at Makro, it was the Samsung 65-inch Smart UHD LED TV,” Boikanyo said. “It is important to note that Massmart had an exclusive deal on the Samsung 58-inch UHD LED TV at a price of R7,999 on Black Friday.” “This is R3,000 less than the everyday price, as this TV usually retails at around R10,999,” she said. Boikanyo added that many shoppers also bought 26-litre Camp Master cooler boxes from both Game and Makro. “Camp Master is a Massmart private label brand and our cooler boxes are manufactured in Sutterheim in the Eastern Cape by a small manufacturer on our Supplier Development Programme,” Boikanyo said. “Massmart chose to provide price support for the product in order to retail the cooler for R99 which provided a significant boost to the supplier’s volumes.”