As we approach the holiday season of 2020, the feelings of harmony through connectivity become more prominent. Perhaps the most notable aspect of the holiday season is the time spent being together with family, where relatives from out of town visit us or we are the ones who make the journey to visit them. It’s so important to cherish these moments, as there isn’t much in this world more important than families coming together and staying together through strengthened bonds. It might seem unconventional at first glance, but one family activity worth your consideration during the holiday season is gaming. It’s a great opportunity for your family to come together in a different and unique way. Popular gaming publisher, GameMine, has highlighted 3 reasons why it can be an enriching experience. You don’t want regular routines to be the only things you do with your family this holiday season, as then it really does become about the routine itself, and not shared experiences as a family. Although they are traditionally seen as a more isolated and individualised experience, video games certainly aren’t limited to this perspective. There are plenty of social games, whether they are played online or locally, that are the perfect opportunity for your family to have a lot of fun together. You may sit in front of a screen as opposed to in the living room or at the dinner table, but video games are still a collective experience, and a way to bring everyone closer together. You never know – you might just make some of your most memorable family moments while gaming. GameMine believes that there are many different scenarios for which you could be considering gaming as a family activity this holiday season. You might be a non-gamer wanting to invest in your children or relatives, knowing that they have a passion for playing video games. It might be the other way around, where you are an avid gamer wanting to share your gaming experiences with your family. Either way, this is representative of the opportunity for you to develop a better understanding of your family members while also feeling more understood by them; all you have to do is start playing! Aside from being entertainment, gaming is also a learning experience. From a child learning to make sense of unfamiliar experiences to an adult learning a game for the first time, gaming can be enriching and fulfilling – especially when family members are involved in this journey. Even those in your family with a lot of gaming experience will be learning by watching their relatives play games and discovering what they like and dislike, as well as how they react to certain situations. Gaming is inherently about being faced with obstacles and learning how to overcome them. The challenges we experience in gameplay, no matter how great or how small, are another aspect of gaming that can bring your family together in unexpected ways. You might be playing a cooperative game, which will require your family to work together. This will develop your interpersonal and communication skills. Alternatively, you could be playing a competitive game where you and your family members will go head-to-head and learn how to compete with one another respectfully, lose gracefully and remain modest when you win. GameMine explains that whichever games suits your fancy, you can expect the challenges that they bring to be a serious point of engagement for everyone in your family, as well as a potential source of personal growth. This holiday season, there’s no better time to start thinking outside the box and playing video games with your family. With a variety of platforms and many more games to choose from, you should have no trouble at all finding the perfect fit for everyone and maximising your fun, all while growing, learning, and communicating together. Click here to learn more about GameMine. This article was published in partnership with GameMine.