Investing in the stock market can be a great way to make money. However, its inaccessibility has historically been a problem for many prospective investors, as you have had to work through complicated processes involving expensive brokers. Thankfully the Internet has made investing much simpler – particularly with affordable and in-depth platforms like Mexem. Mexem Director Itai Liptz said that Mexem is the most affordable online investment platform in South Africa. “In South Africa, fees are very high – some of the highest in the world,” said Liptz. “We’re charging 1 dollar in commission when others are charging 20 dollars – and our service is just as good or even better.” He added that while Mexem is already the most affordable investment platform in the overpriced market of South Africa, Mexem is still aiming to make investing even more affordable for customers. “In the US, many brokers have made their investment platforms zero-commission services,” said Liptz. “That’s where the world is going, and we hope to achieve this in 2020.” Liptz said that the reason Mexem can undercut the South African market is because it has global reach and backing. “We are in 52 different countries including various emerging markets like South Africa,” said Liptz. Liptz said that Mexem has found that it is more expensive to invest in developing markets than in developed ones. “It’s absurd – those that can afford less are forced to pay more,” said Liptz. Mexem is backed by the United States’ largest trading platform, Interactive Brokers, which means that it has phenomenal reach, features, and opportunities that other platforms can’t access. Liptz also highlighted a new feature that is being introduced by Mexem called SignalsBank. “With this feature, you will be able to follow experienced traders’ live accounts,” said Liptz. “If you don’t know how to trade, and if you want to learn – Mexem clients will be able to follow these investors automatically.” All investors who can be followed will be verified by Mexem to ensure that those following the investors aren’t misled by someone with poor investing knowledge. Click here to learn more about Mexem’s impressive investment platform. This article was published in partnership with Mexem.