Netflix has acquired the rights to titles from Indigenous Films, the company told MyBroadband. The streaming service said that classic titles such as Tsotsi, iNumber Number, and The Forgotten Kingdom will become available on Netflix between December 2019 and January 2020. In addition to closing a deal with Indigenous Films, Netflix is also producing three original series in South Africa. Queen Sono​ is Netflix’s first script-to-screen, fully produced African original series. It stars South African actress Pearl Thusi and a host of other local talent including Vuyo Dabula, Kate Liquorish, Chi Mhende, and Enhle Mbali. Johannesburg-based Diprente is the production company. Blood & Water,​ the second Netflix scripted original series from South Africa, will launch in 2020. It is produced by Cape Town-based production company Gambit Films. Heading the creative team and local film crew is South African Nosipho Dumisa. Netflix also recently announced its first original animated local series called M​ama K’s Team 4​, produced by Cape Town’s Triggerfish Animation Studios and London-based children’s entertainment specialist company CAKE. Mama K’s Team 4 is created by Zambian writer Malenga Mulendema, who was one of eight winners in the Triggerfish Story Lab initiative in 2015 – a pan-African talent search. These local shows and movies being added to Netflix join the local film Catching Feelings, and series Shadow. Netflix acquired Catching Feelings in May 2018. Kagiso Lediga directed and stars in the movie, along with Pearl Thusi. It was the first local film available on the South African Netflix service. Shadow​ was acquired and launched on the service globally on 8 March 2019. The show is set and filmed in Johannesburg, starring Pallance Dladla and Amanda du-Pont. Netflix has also acquired several films from Nigeria, Malawi, and Senegal. Films such as Lionheart (Nigeria), The Boy Who Harnessed the Wind (Malawi), and Atlantics (Senegal) were launched globally on Netflix. Nollywood movies brought to the service include Chief Daddy, October 1, and The Figurine.