Telkom has seen impressive growth in 2019, with its mobile division being the biggest driver of the company’s revenue. The company has seen a big increase in mobile subscribers, taking market share from its competitors as it greatly increased the number of prepaid customers on its network. Telkom’s subscriber base comprises 9.4 million prepaid and 2.1 million postpaid customers. The number of prepaid customers almost doubled compared to last year, while postpaid subscribers grew by 26.1%. “Our mobile business continues to be the fastest-growing business in the market with market share gain underpinned by our affordable broadband-led propositions, which continue to resonate with customers,” Telkom said. MyBroadband asked Telkom about its biggest successes of 2019 and the new features it is bringing to its mobile offering. Telkom said that in 2019, its mobile service revenue was the main driver of revenue growth, increasing by 56.6% to R5.6 million. “This was supported by a significant increase in customer base, with subscriber numbers rising 75.5% to 11.5 million,” the company said. “Our mobile business remains the fastest growing business in the market, with market-share gains underpinned by our affordable broadband-led propositions.” In the same period, Telkom increased its number of mobile base stations by 24.9% to 5,476 and implemented a new roaming agreement to supplement its own network. When it comes to new features for its customers, Telkom has recently launched an over-the-top value-added service (VAS) portal. “This VAS is a Telkom-users only subscription platform that will aggregate wireless application service provider (WASP) and content service providers,” the company said. “For consumers, this means that Telkom Plus is a one-stop-shop for subscribers to discover the range of digital services available on the internet designed to engage users and generate interest around VAS subscription services.” Telkom said this platform allows a niche group of content services providers like apps, games and music streaming platform developers to put their products on the portal for a broader reach.