Following the announcement that South African Airways (SAA) would be placed into business rescue, Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan has expanded on the government’s plan to save the failing airline. Gordhan said that since his announcement on Sunday that SAA must undergo a radical restructuring, the airline’s board had taken the decision to place the company into business rescue. This decision is fully supported by the government, Gordhan said. “This is the optimal mechanism to restore confidence in SAA and to safeguard the good assets of SAA and help to restructure and reposition the entity into one that is stronger, more sustainable and able to grow and attract an equity partner,” Gordhan said. “Our desire is that the restructured airline will mark the beginning of a new era in South African aviation and must be able to bring in millions more tourists into SA; help create more jobs in tourism and related sectors of the economy and work with other African airlines to underpin and service the integration of African markets and improve dramatically intra-African trade and travel.” Gordhan said that SAA’s reliance on government funding must be reduced as soon as possible. “Business rescue is a well-defined process that will allow SAA to continue operating in an orderly and safe manner and to keep planes and passengers flying under the direction of a business rescue practitioner,” he said. Gordhan said that the plan to place SAA into business rescue will result in existing lenders providing the airline with R2 billion guaranteed by government, as well as National Treasury providing the airline with another R2 billion. This approach also aims to prevent the disorderly collapse of the airline, which would have a negative impact on passengers, suppliers, and other partners. “It will provide an opportunity to critically review the cost structure of the airline, while simultaneously attempting to retain as many jobs as possible,” Gordhan said. “This reality was clearly understood in the recent wage negotiation process between the unions and the company.” Gordhan stressed that this was not another bailout for the struggling airline. “It must be clear that this is not a bailout. This is the provision of financial assistance in order to facilitate a radical restructure of the airline.” The business rescue process will commence on 5 December, and a business rescue practitioner will be chosen to operate the airline. Gordhan said that this plan should allay any fears of SAA customers who were worried about unplanned stoppages or flight cancellations without notice. “We thank the South African Public, customers and suppliers of SAA for their understanding and patience during this difficult time,” he added. “This initiative demonstrates that government will undertake the necessary bold steps in order to reposition its assets in such a way that they do not continue to depend on the fiscus and thereby burden taxpayers.”