Vodacom annual report for the year ended March 2019 revealed that the company’s CEO, Shameel Joosub, paid R17 million in tax. Over the last year, Joosub received a total salary and bonuses of R38.26 million, but he only put R21 million in his pocket. This is lower than his 2018 package, where he was paid R50.27 million and paid R22.62 million in tax on his salary. His latest salary package is also lower than his 2017 remuneration, where he received a total package of R40.88 million and paid R18.40 million in tax. While South African executives earn high salaries compared to the average salary in the country, it is less than many of their international counterparts. Former Checkers CEO Whitey Basson, who was often lambasted for his high pay package, said his salary was relatively low when compared to his international counterparts. Basson said that while he was Checkers CEO, he was approached by three major international companies which offered him double and even triple his salary to jump ship. He said it is challenging to keep top executives in the country who can grow the industry and ensure the country has a brighter future. Instead of complaining about high executive salaries, Basson said, people should rather focus on growing the economy to increase salaries across the board. The high salaries of banking, telecommunications, and IT executives of JSE-listed companies continue to make headlines, but the taxes they pay do not. This money directly contributes to social welfare grants, building schools and hospitals, and improving the lives of people in underprivileged communities. Without these taxes, many South Africans would be left destitute and without even a basic allowance to help them to put food on the table. Company profits and high salaries are some of the biggest contributors to the government’s coffers and should be celebrated rather than be criticized. The table below shows how much tax Vodacom CEO Shameel Joosub paid between 2017 and 2019. This debunks speculation that executives do not pay their fair share of tax by employing inventive accountants.