Liquid Telecom has stated that it is terminating “legacy products” on its wireless CDMA, WIMAX, and LTE networks. The company has posted a “Consumer Transition Letter” on its website, which detailed the move. A customer also informed MyBroadband that he was sent an email with the same information. “As a valued customer of Neotel Liquid Telecom, we hereby wish to inform you that Neotel Liquid Telecom will no longer be able to offer and support voice and data services on the legacy products on our wireless CDMA, WIMAX, and LTE networks,” stated the letter. The company will therefore be terminating existing services on 27 May 2019, which is a result of its network modernisation process. It added that new services will be launched on the new network in the future. As part of the transition process, Liquid Telecom has partnered with MWEB and Brain Telecoms to assist users in transitioning from the legacy services to “more modern technology “. This will include “exclusively formulated products and promotions” for users. “Both partners have significant expertise in their respective sectors of the market, however, you may opt for another service provider if their offers do not meet your specific requirements. We also confirm that there will be no termination fees charged – in or out of contract – and should you choose to port your telephone number, the existing porting process will apply.” Liquid Telecom advised users to start their service transitioning process as soon as possible, and to contact MWEB and Brain Telecoms for assistance. Liquid Telecom told MyBroadband that it will no longer be able to offer support on the CDMA, WIMAX, and OMNI networks as the “technologies are obsolete and supporting them has become difficult – primarily due to the availability of spares and standard maintenance requirements”. “Liquid Telecom is in the process of exiting the consumer business and thus our service offerings in the future will primarily cater to SME, Enterprise, and Wholesale customers,” added the company. The company said that the transition does not affect its enterprise LTE customers.