Email has shifted from providing basic communication to becoming a core business tool, providing access to information from anywhere at any time. This new means of communication has changed the business landscape by offering the ability to be agile and flexible, enabling business growth. In the increasingly difficult economic climate in South Africa, and the resulting need for businesses to reduce costs and simplify infrastructure, organisations are moving to the cloud. With mail being the first service to become cloud enabled, understanding the change in the environment is critical. Businesses need to protect themselves against an ever-evolving threat landscape. Additionally, businesses need to be focused on managing data leaks and ensuring that there is confidence on the side of the financial department and the board that the company will not lose corporate data. So, to facilitate this, better management of the business’ email in the cloud is necessary to address these concerns. Moving your email onto the cloud provides your staff with email availability across all of their digital devices from anywhere with an internet connection. Additionally, cloud-based email provides seamless management opportunities through outsourcing, and allows businesses to deal with volatile storage needs. When you move to the cloud you can reap the benefits of a multi-tenant environment with the availability of common resources and the ability to integrate with other cloud services which further enables your digital transformation to the cloud. You mitigate the risks of downtime and data loss as your users continue to be productive. Migration to the cloud is seamless, and once you have migrated you will be confronted with the ever-growing awareness of managing your services safely by locking down unauthorised access – while being able to resolve emerging threats and remove any issues caused by a lack of visibility and privacy control. Email of the past was designed for a very different purpose to the email of today, and is now crucial to making a business successful. Poor email management can halt your business in its track if held to ransom by cyber criminals. Many Office 365 customers think they’ve got everything under control, but before getting too comfortable, you should ask yourself these questions: It is well known that offloading your on-premise email management to the cloud will reduce costs and alleviate hosting responsibilities – but can your provider guarantee security? 91% of all data breaches are mail-borne and while Exchange online protection will stop most threats, they aren’t positioned to stop them all. Additionally, with POPI and GDPR requirements being as strict as they are, are you able to answer questions such as: With email becoming the the most popular means of cyber attacks, and by extension the number 1 security risk in your digital operations, attacks such as malware, ransomware, impersonations and phishing attacks need to be shut down early. LiquidCloud’s bundled Office 365 and Mimecast offering, eliminates email-borne cyber threats and prevents data loss while maintaining your compliance requirements. It enables you to reduce costs and simplify your business’ infrastructure while meeting the required uptime and SLA to maintain productivity. LiquidCloud offers email in the cloud with full protection from all email-borne attacks backed by the highest level of customer support and services with premier Microsoft and Mimecast Partner status. With Mimecast, LiquidCloud can apply analytics through a multi-layered system. Mimecast’s Email Security service, which includes targeted threat protection such as URL Protect, Attachment Protect and Impersonation Protect, is a set of security services that help organisations defend against advanced email-borne threats. LiquidCloud delivers email and cloud services to businesses of all sizes throughout Africa in high availability datacentres in Johannesburg and Cape Town. LiquidCloud has grown in the past 9 years to its current position as a leading player in the market, and manages over 12,000 mailboxes LiquidCloud is focused on assisting this migration to the cloud with professional services accompanied by consulting, deployment, customisation and support. Mimecast will meet your journaling and archiving requirements and will provide you with the tools to analyse and prevent upfront attacks, while minimising disruption and optimising recovery after an attack. Sign up for Office 365 with Liquidcloud, protected by Mimecast, today. This article was published in partnership with LiquidCloud.