Today, most of us use the Internet daily, if not hourly. Businesses have grown extremely dependent on it, and with a poor Internet connection, you could experience decrease response times, slow productivity, which will cost you clients and ultimately make you lose a lot of money. Fast Internet, on the other hand, allows organisations to utilise cloud applications quickly and is key for productivity growth. Fibre Stream and Skyfi are two fast-growing South African ISPs that are making waves in ICT. Both service providers offer a variety of Internet options and give users freedom of choice so they can experience lightning fast Internet. Below is a breakdown of what these two ISPs offer and why one of them should be your next upgrade. Starting out as a wireless Internet provider in 2012, the company boasts abundant knowledge in the ICT space, and have since expanded their offerings to other forms of Internet. Today, Fibre Stream provides a full range of Internet products, services and solutions, which include fibre to the building (FTTB), fibre to the home (FTTH), wireless point-to-multi-point, wireless point-to-point, and networking IP. Due to providing wireless connectivity solutions over many years, Fibre Stream offers some of the best wireless solutions available in the market. With Fibre Stream wireless Internet, you can choose your speed and enjoy unlimited Internet access all day. Fibre Stream also offers a variety of cost-effective fibre packages for users with diverse needs. Whether it’s a casual browser, a business with stringent connectivity needs, or a stay at home Internet mogul – Fibre Stream can cater to your needs. Their fibre products and services allow telco carriers, ISPs, universities, and IT infrastructure providers to alleviate congestion within existing networks by providing innovative solutions to overcome capacity limitations. Their fibre packages are uncapped and unshaped for reliable Internet with no hidden or extra costs. Fibre Stream’s services and solutions are also backed by extensive logistical and technical service support, which include training, auditing, and installation for clients. Using knowledge and understanding, they help customers with any possible commercial or technical issue which could arise, and work closely with clients in order to provide them with professional advice and assistance at all stages. The next service provider in review, is Skyfi. Skyfi understands that technology is an integral part of any business, and the importance of a reliable infrastructure that can handle all your connectivity needs. Skyfi’s connectivity solutions, like Fibre Stream, extend from wireless to business and home fibre, and supports browsing requirements for users of all categories. They offer Internet solutions with the customer in mind and pay careful attention to their needs, while giving users the option to tailor any Internet package to their browsing needs. “We don’t just want your business, we want you to understand what we do and why we do it. It’s important to us that our customers are informed on how the Internet connects them and how we effortlessly and wirelessly connect them,” said Skyfi. Both service providers offer a variety of Internet options, which gives South Africans freedom of choice for fast Internet. Both ISPs have also partnered with national networks, such as DFA, Telkom, Openserve, Vumatel, and MTN Business, and will soon extend their services across the country. If you’re looking for lightning fast Internet that won’t break the bank – look no further. This article was published in partnership with Fibre Stream.