Wits Business School (WBS) offers a range of Digital Business courses for executives and organisations who are interested in expanding their digital knowledge. The courses will enable delegates to become more digitally savvy, allowing them to gain a deeper understanding of the digital landscape rapidly evolving around us. The digital business short courses for executives available from Wits Business School are outlined below. The Emerging Leaders in Digital Business programme blends digitally-focused content with essential introductory management skills that are appropriate for, and informed by, digital advancements for a perfect beginning to a career in the digital age. This course is ideal for young and emerging talent, new or lower-mid managers, and early specialists, and takes 21 days to complete spread over six weeks. Applicants are required to have a matric or equivalent qualification with relevant working experience, or an undergraduate degree or equivalent. This course is ideal for advancing talent, middle and senior managers, ‘high potentials’, and established specialists. Applicants are required to have a matric or equivalent qualification with relevant working experience, or an undergraduate degree or equivalent. The Accelerated Leaders in Digital Business programme follows on from the Emerging Leaders in Digital Business programme but can be done independently for those seeking intermediate digital business content, and those for whom more advanced leadership issues are at play. The duration of the course is 24 days spread over seven weeks. This short course is for anyone who needs to advance their understanding of cutting-edge digital topics, including organisational managers, consultants and technology specialists who wish to gain some business understanding of the application of digital technology, and anyone interested in the digital revolution and digital transformation. Applicants are required to have a matric certificate or relevant work experience. This course takes place over five consecutive days. This course is ideal for senior management or organisational executives, advanced specialists, and top talent. To qualify, you will need an undergraduate degree and relevant senior work experience. The duration of this course is 28 days spread over eight weeks. This course is ideal for anyone who wants to gain a fast but rich overview of the application of digital technology within business, including the Internet of Things (IoT), Artificial Intelligence (AI), big data, virtual and augmented reality, additive manufacturing, cyber security, and more. This five-day course will give you a broad understanding of the digital technology landscape, enabling you to kick-start your digital transformation journey. The digital world waits for no man. In order to be successful, organisations need to equip themselves with digital knowledge, so they can embrace the wave that is digitisation. To find out more, visit the Wits Business School Digital Business website. This article was published in partnership with Wits Business School.