With rapid implementation of disruptive technologies, and new competitors entering the market, organisations are facing more challenges than ever before, forcing them to adapt and innovate to stay competitive. This involves modernising through cloud technologies, which offer capabilities to boost speed, agility, and cost savings. With the push towards digital transformation, there is also a push towards robust cloud-based services, which is why many software vendors start their own cloud-based solutions to help customers manage their IT infrastructure. However, this leaves IT managers with multiple vendor solutions managing their infrastructure, applications, network, and security in silos, complicating the process of monitoring and managing service assurance. Subsequently, it leaves them with a disjointed strategy and affects how they manage the quality that their IT departments, and other business operations that are reliant on them, are getting. Cloud solutions are also often costly to own, run, and implement – both from a software licencing perspective and a skills perspective – and evidently, few municipalities have the skills for it. There are also now new limitations in South Africa on what you can do in the cloud, with data retention requirements from the POPI act coming into play, and new legislation that dictates how you do this. According to Gary de Menezes, Country General Manager for Micro Focus South Africa, service providers looking to run their business operations in the cloud need a solution that allows them to manage the infrastructure with all the functionality that’s needed in an integrated approach. For this reason, and to address current challenges and limitations, Micro Focus has partnered with EOH to develop a new wave of technologies and solutions that manage your infrastructure applications and operations in the cloud, while keeping the legislative requirements of data storage in mind. Micro Focus and EOH jointly built IT operations management (ITOM) solutions on a common platform to provide an overarching environment where you can see the entire environment and organisation and manage it through one interface. This all-encompassing, cloud-based, as-a-service offering uses shared services for service management and robotics process automation, artificial intelligence, configuration management, ticket monitoring and reporting—all of which enable greater agility and flexibility. According to De Menezes, it is the industry’s first and only containerised platform designed with the speed, agility, and intelligence required to power modern hybrid IT operations at the speed of DevOps – jointly developed by an international global company and a local company. It allows you to manage services such as Intranets, Wide Area Networks (WAN), and Local Area Networks (LAN) holistically, and allows for end-to-end application monitoring – whether cloud-based or on-premise. Monitoring is not only bound and limited to IT but can extend into other workflows within the business and manage all devices. It also interfaces with solutions customers already have in place and can be tailored to suit every company’s specific needs. This means that if you’ve already invested in certain technologies, you don’t have to disband them, which is a major benefit and a key part of this powerful solution. By building solutions on a common platform, service providers can enable resource optimisation, standardise deployment and simplify operations through common updates, upgrades, and scalability procedures. Multichoice’s implementation of Micro Focus’s IT Operations Management (ITOM) “We have migrated our first customer, Multichoice, onto the platform, and we’ll start looking at steadiness operations across the country to the public and private sector,” said De Menezes. “EOH migrated OpsBridge into the Cloud and we have seen an ROI within 3-4 months. This is largely due to the reduction in mean time to respond and mean time to repair views we have been able to extract out of our estate,” said Martin Moralo from MultiChoice. “We have also been able to get significant value from the operations automation capabilities within OpsBridge. An added benefit is the closed loop incident process between OpsBridge and Micro Focus Service Management Automation that drastically reduced the turnaround time for incidents and allowed the root cause to be identified as well as auto closing of the incidents,” said Moralo. To find out more, download this White Paper. This article was published in partnership with Micro Focus.