The SABC announced that it has signed a licence agreement with streaming service Viu. Viu is a new streaming service which is set to launch in South Africa on 28 February 2019, offering local content through its online platform. Certain content is available to watch freely on the platform, with adverts shown, while users are required to sign in and subscribe for premium content – according to the website’s Terms and Conditions page. The Premium membership can be set to renew on a monthly, weekly, or daily basis depending on the plan the customer has selected. There is currently no option to sign up for Premium membership on the website’s South African page, but the terms and conditions list the following prices under the billing terms: Users with the Premium subscription plan will have access to Premium videos and will not be presented with advertisements when watching content.  The licensing agreement between the SABC and Viu grants the platform rights to selected SABC titles and library content for a period of 24 months, including popular shows such as Uzalo and Skeem Saam. These shows were previously available freely on YouTube, but will now be migrated to the Viu platform. Uzalo and Skeem Saam will remain available for viewing on YouTube until Viu officially launches in South Africa. These shows are already available to watch on the Viu platform and are labelled as “Viu Exclusives”. The streaming service has also secured video-on-demand rights to 18 South African titles from the SABC catalogue. “The SABC is proud to have partnered with Viu SA on this exciting new initiative,” SABC CEO Madoda Mxakwe said. “As a broadcaster, it is imperative that we continuously move with the times and ensure that our programmes are available through VOD platforms.” Viu South Africa country manager Ryan Solovei said that as a premium platform it is “proud to partner with SABC to provide a digital platform for the broadcaster’s incredible shows”. “We believe in the power of South African stories, and we look forward to increasing access to these stories to as many people as possible through our digital platform.” In addition to the SABC content, Viu will offer South Africans Bollywood films, African series and movies, and South Asian shows. The Viu streaming platform will be available on Android and iOS, as well as through web browsers.