Samsung unveiled its Galaxy S10 range of devices in South Africa at its Unpacked 2019 event last night. The company launched four new devices – the Galaxy S10, S10+, S10e, and Galaxy Fold. The Galaxy S10 and S10+ and direct successors to the Galaxy S9 and S9+, while the Galaxy S10e is aimed at a lower price point while retaining many of the features packed into the more expensive devices. Samsung South Africa said all the new devices except the Fold would be available from 8 March 2019 and are available for pre-order. The Galaxy Fold will only launch locally in the beginning of May 2019, the company said. Following the launch event of the devices, Samsung kindly provided MyBroadband with a new Galaxy S10+ to review.  The Samsung Galaxy S10+ sports a similar design to the previous generation of Galaxy smartphones, but it now has an overhauled Infinity-O display which forgoes a top bezel or a notch for a cutout in the full-screen panel which houses the dual front-facing cameras. Samsung has also improved the base storage and memory configurations of its devices, with our Galaxy S10+ boasting 8GB of RAM and 128GB of internal storage. Support for 512GB of microSD storage is also included A triple-camera system is housed on the rear of the smartphone, comprising a 12MP wide lens with variable aperture, 12MP optical lens, and 16MP ultra-wide lens. The device feels similar in your hand to the previous generation, although our first impressions of the camera system delivered a marked improvement over the Galaxy S9 and S9+. The Infinity-O display also allows for even more screen space while sacrificing as little of the display as possible, and it is a great step up compared to the standard Infinity display with its bigger bezels. The specifications of the Samsung Galaxy S10+ provided to MyBroadband are shown below.   Samsung has made impressive changes to hardware and design in the S10+, and it has removed the physical fingerprint sensor on the back of the device. Instead, users can now unlock the device by placing their finger on the display, where it is authenticated by an in-screen ultrasonic fingerprint sensor. Using this is just as fast as unlocking the device via a physical scanner, and the smartphone can be unlocked even when the display is off – removing the need to press the lock button before verifying your identity. Another useful feature of the Samsung Galaxy S10+ is its reverse wireless charging, which can charge any compatible device by simply placing the device on the back of the smartphone. This will be very useful for those who pre-order the smartphone and receive a free pair of wireless Galaxy Bud earphones, which are charging compatible. From our first impressions, Samsung’s Galaxy S10+ is a marked improvement over the previous generation, maintaining the best features of the Galaxy S9+ while adding a number of powerful new components and functionality.   