MultiChoice Group CEO Calvo Mawela has told MyBroadband that its DStv “streaming-only” service is still set to launch in 2019. His statement followed MultiChoice Group listing on the JSE on 27 February 2019. Mawela previously told MyBroadband, in May 2018, that it was working on the DStv streaming service, but securing the streaming rights for all the content they offer on their existing DStv packages was a hurdle to clear. By November 2018, MultiChoice said it was working on the service, but no firm launch date was set. Speaking at MultiChoice’s listing event at the JSE this week, Mawela confirmed that the DStv streaming-only service will launch in 2019, but a firm launch date is not finalised as yet. “We are looking at that product and our plan is to launch in 2019. Our teams are working hard at getting the product up and running,” said Mawela. “We are still working very hard to get it ready in 2019.” This includes the development of the look and feel of the service, along with its pricing. With regards to the company’s established satellite TV business, Mawela said they continue to assess – on a regular basis – which channels and content will bring viewers good entertainment and value. “On a monthly basis we look at our channels offerings, the content that is available worldwide, and the content that we think will resonate with our users,” he said. MultiChoice has contract deals with a number of studios, he added, and as they bring out new content it will be added to the platform. This constant evaluation also includes pricing strategies. Earlier this year, MultiChoice announced that it will freeze the price of DStv Premium from 1 April 2019. This came alongside the upward adjustment of prices for other DStv subscription packages. Mawela said they conduct “deep research into price elasticity across all packages” and make decisions based on this. For the Premium tier, for example, they look at value, where Premium customers sit in terms of their ability to spend money, and how a price increase will impact users. “Where we see that our consumers are facing difficulty… we keep [prices] flat,” he said.