Cybercrime is an ongoing topic which makes headlines all too often, and it won’t die down any time soon. From ransomware attacks to data theft, cyber threats can have a colossal impact on business operations. Many organisations may argue that they have cyber security policies and product-solutions in place. However, due to the unpredictable and everchanging nature of cybercrime, which can paralyse even the largest of enterprises, IT teams cannot grow complacent. Although it is generally expected of the IT team to manage cyber security incidents, these incidents are not just an IT issue and may require a different set of skills to the traditional IT service desk approach. According to Wolfpack Information Risk, as a starting point and at the very least, organisations can action the following steps in order to manage cyber incidents and related events.  Wolfpack assists companies to accelerate their incident management programme through a facilitated approach providing the necessary documents, processes, awareness and now, in partnership with CYBERGYM, an arena to transfer skills to detect and respond to realistic cyber security incidents.  CYBERGYM has developed a global network of integrated cyber training and technology arenas to test an organisation’s systems, processes and people capabilities against cyberattacks. CYBERGYM conducts cyber-warfare readiness training for governmental and private enterprises. It focuses on the weakest link in any emergency response system – the people who run it. Wolfpack specialises in business-aligned information risk and cyber threat management services and covers the full spectrum of prevention, detection, incident management and resilience requirements. In 2018 Wolfpack established the first African CYBERGYM arena in Johannesburg to help prepare management and technical teams to fend off real-time cyberattacks. To find out more, visit the Wolfpack Information Risk website. This article was published in partnership with Wolfpack Information Risk.