Samsung is one of the world’s favourite smartphone brands, and its Galaxy devices are extremely popular in South Africa. The Galaxy lineup includes everything from mid-range and budget handsets to flagship smartphones with the latest cutting-edge features on the market. No matter which price bracket Samsung’s Galaxy devices occupy however, they always offer an assurance of quality and high-value features which outstrip the competition. Samsung’s Galaxy smartphones are one of our favourite devices due to simple but important features that are critical to the experience of using a smartphone.  Smartphones are ubiquitous these days, and they all look relatively similar, but Samsung includes various design features which make its Galaxy handsets stand out from the crowd. A great example of this is the curved, high resolution displays and symmetrical rear chassis design of the Galaxy S9. These features are also filtered down through to cheaper Galaxy models, with many of the Galaxy A and J-series smartphones including multi-camera systems, AMOLED displays, IP68 durability, and more. OS-level support for Dual Messenger and the Bixby digital assistant are just a couple of the awesome features offered by Samsung Galaxy smartphones, but the most impressive is Samsung Pay. Select Samsung Galaxy smartphones can use Samsung Pay to make payments at over 97% of all POS terminals in South Africa. After becoming used to leaving your wallet at home and paying with your smartphone, it is difficult to go back to a different device.  Samsung’s Galaxy smartphones may occupy a wide selection of price brackets, but they always boast powerful specifications relative to their competition, along with great specifications. The camera and display systems on Galaxy smartphones are particularly good across the board, with high-end devices including more capable, adaptive lenses. The epitome of Samsung’s uncompromising approach to smartphone design is the Galaxy Note 9, which boasts an impressive set of specifications while retaining and improving fan-favourite features such as the S-Pen stylus. The Samsung Galaxy Note 9 boasts support for 1TB of storage thanks to its 512GB* of on-board flash storage and microSD card slot.* It also retains the advanced camera system first implemented on the Galaxy S9+ and is powered by the cutting-edge Samsung Exynos 9810 Octa chipset. In addition to impressive hardware, Samsung also ensures that its Galaxy smartphones are completely secure, relying on powerful defenses like its Knox security solution to protect user data. Samsung has captured the adoration of Android users with its Galaxy smartphones thanks to their powerful specifications, beautiful design, lightweight software, and uncompromising security. To find out more about Samsung’s exciting new additions to its flagship Galaxy smartphone range, sign up for the Unpacked 2019 live stream. *Available on the *512GB Model This article was published in partnership with Samsung.