Showmax has some of the best international and local shows out there to ensure you have entertainment freedom anywhere, anytime. With so many shows at your disposal, it may be hard to know which ones to pick. To help you enjoy top entertainment from the get-go, with the help of Rotten Tomatoes, we have compiled a list of the best-rated TV series available on Showmax. Generally considered one of the greatest TV shows of all time, The Sopranos won 21 Emmys, five Golden Globes and two Peabody Awards, and was named the best of the best by Rolling Stone Magazine and TV Guide Magazine – meaning you are sure not be disappointed. Catch all six seasons of this excellent show on Showmax. Suits scored a 100% rating for several of its seasons – and the saga continues. You can watch the show that made the Duchess of Sussex famous – from the beginning to the first 10 episodes of Season 8 – on Showmax. Even without Meghan Markle, however, this show has a stellar cast, including the brooding Gabriel Macht as lawyer Harvey Specter. This sci-fi thriller stars JK Simmons (Law & Order) as a lowly UN worker who realises his job is actually to guard a secret crossing between our world and a parallel universe where things are the same, but different. Rectify follows a man wrongly convicted of murder who’s released after 20 years behind bars. Four seasons are available to watch, and critics have concluded that the best season is the last one. If you haven’t watched Downton Abbey yet, where have you been? This series follows the aristocratic Crawley family and their servants as they navigate life in a changing world. The Girl From St Agnes The Girl From St Agnes, Showmax’s first Original drama series, may not be on Rotten Tomatoes’s radar, but it’s getting rave reviews from critics in SA. If you love homegrown drama that deals with some topical issues, you’ll want to watch The Girl From St Agnes in one sitting. Binge all 8 episodes exclusively on Showmax.  Other drama series that just missed the 100% rating, but are still loved among many, are listed below. Random Acts of Flyness is a sketch show that looks at a variety of topics with a no-holds-barred approach. It takes a hard but humorous look at race politics in America, and has guest stars including Whoopi Goldberg. This series follows a bunch of suitably nerdy and awkward guys as they attempt to launch a tech company called Pied Piper. It offers viewers five seasons (so far) of hilariousness as they bumble and stumble their way through business successes and failures. Season 5 has just hit Showmax. The Bold Type follows three glam friends who work at a New York fashion magazine. While there is some fine fashion and a lot of romance in this series, it’s not all boys and baubles. There are some serious themes throughout the show such as the #MeToo movement, genetic testing, politics, religion, immigration and more. Watch Seasons 1 and 2 on Showmax.  Superstore is a workplace comedy that examines the humdrum lives of a diverse group of people working at a big-box store. This show has one of the strongest casts of supporting characters you’ll see on TV, but the centrepiece is undoubtedly the “will-they-won’t-they” storyline between Amy (America Ferreira) and Jonah. This popular comedy show stars Andy Samberg as successful, rule-breaking Det. Jake Peralta, alongside Terry Crews who plays the tough, but sensitive Sgt. Terry Jeffords. The ensemble cast will light up your screen with their witty come-backs, unusual behaviour, and chemistry. Watch all five seasons on Showmax. Veep has won a truckload of awards, including the Emmy for Outstanding Comedy Series three times in a row (for Seasons 4, 5, and 6) with Julia Louis-Dreyfus playing a hilarious politician and Capitol Hill for all it’s worth. All six seasons are available on Showmax. Insecure, as the name suggests, follows two insecure and less-than-confident black women in their 20s finding their way through life. It stars Issa Rae and is insightful, sensitive, and seriously funny. We also recommend watching these high-rated comedy series: There are several ways to subscribe to Showmax and get unlimited access to everything they have available. An easy way for you to subscribe is to sign up here for only R99 per month. For Vodacom customers, however, the deal gets even sweeter. Showmax and Vodacom have extended the popular Vodacom promotion until 28 February 2019. Not aware of the deal? Vodacom prepaid and contract customers who sign up to Showmax before the end of February will get to stream Showmax free for three months and get 15GB of data to use only on Showmax. What’s more is that once the three trial months are up, Vodacom customers will get a monthly discount of R50 for the following nine months – meaning they’ll pay R49 instead of R99 per month’ If you’re a DStv Premium subscriber you can access Showmax FREE, or, if you’re a Compact or Compact Plus subscriber and haven’t yet added Showmax to your DStv bill, you can sign up for 60 days of Showmax for free. The sign-up period for this special 60-day trial is from 7 February 2019 to 7 April 2019. After your two-month free trial has elapsed, you’ll only pay R49 per month to access all the great entertainment Showmax has to offer. Go to www.showmax.com/dstv for more.