King Goodwill Zwelithini, JR Capital, and a mobile virtual network enabler (MVNE) have partnered to create a new mobile network in South Africa. The network is called Bayede Mobile, and it aims to provide affordable mobile rates. “Powered by His Majesty King Goodwill Zwelithini, and supported by the private sector and government, Bayede Mobile will help reach those with little to no access to basic mobile infrastructure at an excellent rate,” the company said in a press statement. King Zwelithini was quoted as saying: “I want to be part of a movement that helps provide an affordable solution for the poor and marginalised in their use of technology, allowing them the opportunity to connect and empower themselves.” The King also called for strategic partnerships with religious organisations, tribal leaders, and other institutions. “Bayede Mobile has been a vision of ours for many years,” JR Capital added. “To see this mobile network come to fruition, through an alliance with King Goodwill Zwelithini and government, creates the foundation for a successful brand that will give mobile communication access to people and communities who need it most,” the company added. Bayede Mobile said it will leverage the existing infrastructure of some of South Africa’s biggest mobile networks, and will offer an affordable flat rate for connectivity. The network is expected to launch in mid-2019, and the wording of the announcement implies that it will run as a mobile virtual network operator (MVNO) on an existing local mobile network. The most likely network for Bayede Mobile to partner with is Cell C, as the mobile operator already has many MVNOs active on its network. These MVNOs include partnerships with established companies such as Standard Bank Mobile and Virgin Mobile, and religious groups such as PSB Network. There is currently no information available regarding the launch of Bayede Mobile or pricing, but the company said that it will provide further details in due course. MyBroadband asked Bayede Mobile for additional comment, but it did not immediately respond to questions.