Huawei Consumer Business Group (BG) South Africa has announced the official opening of its first Huawei service store in KwaZulu-Natal, at the Cornubia Mall in Durban. The store now bolsters its customer service offering to Huawei users in the province, increasing the company’s footprint, by joining Huawei’s other three stores in Melrose Arch in Johannesburg and Canal Walk and Somerset, in Cape Town. Huawei Service Centres, including the latest Durban store, are open to customers and will provide the finest service satisfaction under one roof. Customers can look forward to dedicated services such as mobile training sessions, onsite device repairs and an extensive range of Huawei accessories to choose from, for all products. Huawei Service Centres have been designed to incorporate the latest technologies, service and repair, culminating in a seamless experience. Customers can also expect to be guided by expert staff and will have the choice to wait in comfort while repairs are being undertaken. Each Huawei stores strives to prioritise customers’ needs and will tailor devices and outlets to suit the needs of customers in each region. Huawei believes that after-sale service is a key component in keeping customers happy, having a stronger national footprint with four service centres in South Africa, all offer customers peace of mind and convenience for all service related needs. Convenient services for all Huawei users are available at the service centre, including a standard turnaround time for phones that are sent in using the postal repair service process, while walk-in customers will be able to wait, depending on the extent of the repair to the handset. Repairs will range from software and hardware faults, to screen replacements and other device issues. Additionally, customers have the option of browsing while waiting and can use the devices in the store, as well as browse the accessory wall or use the devices at the game arena. Huawei dedicated staff will also be able to offer any assistance to customers relating to the functionality on of their device, setting up of emails and social media accounts and aiding in familiarising customers with their device. Huawei additionally offers the following services in the newly opened Durban store, and stores around the country: This article was published in partnership with Huawei.