Second-hand car trading company WeBuyCars has opened a new warehouse in Aeroton, Johannesburg. The new showroom was built to accommodate the volume of vehicles bought and sold by the rapidly-growing company, and was completed just in time to cope with the increasing number of vehicles held. The Aeroton warehouse opened for business in December 2018, but was only completed and officially launched at an event on 7 February 2019. Speaking at the ribbon-cutting ceremony for the Aeroton warehouse, WeBuyCars CEO Faan van der Walt said the company’s biggest challenge throughout 2018 was keeping pace with its meteoric growth. “In January 2018, we were selling about 125 vehicles every day. At the end of January 2019, we are selling just over 200 vehicles per day, he said.”   MyBroadband also spoke to Faan’s brother, chief strategy officer Dirk van der Walt about the company’s plans for future warehouses. “If possible, we will open another three warehouses this year,” van der Walt said. He added that the biggest challenge was funding the property and its construction so that it could become operational while meeting the company’s standards for customer-friendly environments and offerings. The Aeroton warehouse and the company’s building in Centurion both include on-site cafes and seating areas to make customers feel welcome. On-site vehicle financing and many other services are also available from within the WeBuyCars warehouses. Van der Walt said this customer-facing approach is very important to the company. “The consumer-friendly aspect of our warehouses are extremely important to us,” he said. “The way you position yourself in the market and do your branding is extremely important. We bring a lot of convenience to the customer, because we bring them tremendous choice in one location,” he added. “On the buying side, we come out to customers and buy their car quickly and easily. There is no trouble or security risk, and very often we pay more than what the dealers are offering.”   