Samsung has announced its new line-up of Galaxy wearables: the Galaxy Watch Active, the Galaxy Fit and Fit e, and the Galaxy Buds. The Galaxy Watch Active is Samsung’s flagship smartwatch, whereas the Fit and Fit e are fitness-focused devices. Samsung’s Galaxy Buds are the company’s newest wireless earphones, focused on providing premium quality audio to users of their smart devices. These wearables were all launched at Samsung’s 2019 Unpacked event, where the Galaxy brand celebrated its 10th anniversary. The Galaxy Buds are Samsung’s latest wireless earbuds, giving users a “seamlessly connected experience on the go”. Galaxy Buds use sound by AKG, and also support enhanced ambient sound – allowing you to hear your surroundings clearly even while wearing the Galaxy Buds. This ensures that while listening to music or making a call, you remain aware of the environment around you. It also offers an Adaptive Dual Microphone system that uses an inner and outer microphone in each bud, ensuring that your voice is heard regardless of how loud the environment is. Galaxy Buds can remain powered for up to six hours of Bluetooth streaming, or up to five hours of calls, and offer a USB Type-C port for charging purposes. Alternatively, their case also holds up to a seven-hour charge, allowing for wireless charging using the S10 range’s wireless charging functionality. A 15-minute quick-charge will provide Galaxy Buds users with 1.7 hours usage, said Samsung. The Galaxy Buds integrate with Bixby on the latest Galaxy mobile devices, allowing users to activate the voice assistant without picking up their phones, it added.  The Galaxy Watch Active offers new blood pressure monitoring technology, helping users to keep track of their health at all times. The Watch Active also includes a stress tracker, allowing users to track and manage their stress levels, while also allowing for the tracking of as many as 39 activities. Galaxy’s Watch Active is compatible with both Android and iOS, and features popular third-party apps such as Spotify and Strava, said Samsung. It is powered by a 230mAh battery, which can be charged wirelessly using the S10’s reverse wireless charging functionality. Users are also provided with 4GB internal storage and 768MB RAM. The watch’s display is a 360×360 AMOLED screen covered in Corning Gorilla Glass 3.  The Galaxy Fit and Fit e are thin, lightweight watch-type devices that allow users to track their exercise performance. These devices automatically begin tracking your activities when you start walking, running, cycling, or rowing, and you can also manually choose from over 90 different activities in the Samsung Health smartphone app. The Fit offers a 0.95-inch, 120 x 240 AMOLED display, while the Fit e uses a 0.74-inch, 64 x 128 PMOLED display. The Fit also offers a more powerful 120mAh battery charged with NFC wireless technology, while the Fit e uses a 70mAh battery charged through a Pogo port. Both devices have water resistance of 5ATM, protecting your device against anything from a shower to a swim. 