The digital era has ushered in a culture of instant gratification across the world. This means that people want more entertainment on the go, while being able to choose the device they watch it on. To cater to these demands, streaming media was introduced, which led to the abandoning of traditional cable television for services such as YouTube, Netflix, and Showmax. To use these services and binge-watch their favourite shows in high definition for hours on end, customers must have a solid line-speed and enough data. South African mobile operators have great data packages and promotions available so users can stream content effortlessly and affordably. The best deals available from each of the four biggest South African mobile operators are listed below. Note that deals are subject to availability and are valid for a limited period only. Great Telkom data deals available on a 24-month contract are outlined below. Above offers are valid until 31st March 2018 Vodacom’s best data deals available on a 24-month contract are outlined below. Until the end of February 2019, Vodacom prepaid and contract customers who sign up to Showmax  before 28 February will get a three-month free trial, plus 15GB (over 3 months) of free Showmax data. After the trial is up, Vodacom customers will only pay R49 per month for the following nine months, instead of R99. MTN’s great data deals available on a 24-month contract are outlined below. Cell C’s best SIM only data deals for streaming available on a 24-month contract are listed below. Vodacom, Telkom and MTN all have special prepaid deals for streaming Showmax and DStv Now.  The device together with the quality setting you use will impact how much data you consume. For this reason, you will need to estimate your average data consumption and change the quality setting on your device to ensure you get the most out of your data bundle. Showmax’s ‘bandwidth capping’ function reduces data consumption by managing video quality. To estimate your average data usage, you can use the controls in Showmax’s bandwidth calculator. If you are a light user, you can opt for data bundles ranging between 20GB to 40G. Data bundles between 60GB and 80GB are suited to medium user’s needs and if you’re a streaming junkie, a 100GB or 200GB data bundle will suffice. On the other hand, if you don’t want to bat an eye about how much data you use, your best bet would be 400GB or uncapped data. Showmax and DStv Now provides tons of premium series and movies, which you can watch back-to-back when you sign up and add your subscription to your Vodacom, MTN, Telkom, or Cell C bill. Try it free for 14-days. This article was published in partnership with Showmax.