The effectiveness of your call centre is one of the driving factors behind the reputation of your business. If you can solve the problems faced by your customers quickly and easily, they are much more likely to be satisfied with your company. That’s why it is so important to have the appropriate infrastructure in place at your call centres. Liam’s Group is a company designed specifically with call centres in mind. It is a level 1 BEE company and has over 40 years of experience within its executive and management teams. The company offers a variety of services to companies that run call centres, including uncapped data, uncapped voice, call centre platforms, call centre lead generation, and even call centre staffing. Key to Liam’s Group’s value to businesses is its uncapped voice solutions. Liam’s Group offers a fixed rate per seat, per month, which is the most competitive in South Africa. Their uncapped voice services will keep your business online from 8:00 to 18:00 on weekdays, as well as from 8:00 to 13:00 on Saturdays. Their uncapped voice product covers all South African landline and cellular providers, and includes a full predictive dialer option – ensuring you get 2 lines per agent. The process of signing up for uncapped voice from Liam’s Group is simple. Firstly, Liam’s Group will meet up with all the relevant decision makers in your business, as well as with your call centre’s IT and Accounts departments. Liam’s Group will perform an audit on your current set-up, and upon completion, will offer an uncapped package specific to your company’s needs. You can expect massive savings from Liam’s Group, since they offer the most competitive fixed rates in South Africa. For example, Liam’s Group took a 70-seater call centre that was spending R220,000 per month, and offered them a 350-line (with 70 concurrent lines) system for half the price. Other than their call centre services, Liam’s Group also offers you the opportunity to save on your staff’s mobile voice spend if your business is larger than 20 members. Liam’s Group will charge your business a capped monthly fee, and then provide unlimited mobile-to-mobile calls for your staff members. This product works especially well for companies with big fleets, such as courier companies, trucking companies, and companies with lots of sales reps on the road. To learn more about Liam’s Group’s uncapped voice products, as well as their other powerful solutions for call centres, contact them on their website or at sales@liamsgroup.co.za This article was published in partnership with Lirasmart.