As the world moves towards a more digitised economy, brought on by the exponential growth in technology driven solutions, businesses need to find ways to keep pace with the world to survive, let alone compete. However, one cannot ignore the cost of implementing new technologies. The total cost to overhaul existing legacy systems can be a significant stumbling block to the cash flow of many businesses, which subsequently affects growth and innovation. Compounding this, is the weakening Rand, weak economic fundamentals, and business uncertainty which have resulted in tough times for South African businesses. Budgets are taking a knock and are reduced from year to year, leaving department heads scrambling to determine where the reductions need to be made. In a climate of funding uncertainty and concerns over stretched budgets, one key area that allows an organisation to retain its capital funds, is the leasing of an organisation’s depreciating assets. When it comes to depreciating assets such as technology hardware, vehicles or machinery, businesses around the world are partnering with equipment leasing companies to help them access and manage the equipment they need. Taking a look at technology hardware such as laptops, desktops, servers, networking equipment etc, it loses value in real terms and stops operating at optimum levels with time. The right leasing partner will provide an end to end solution that will help the organisation exchange obsolete equipment at the end of the leasing term and replace it with modern technology. Leasing is a great way for an organisation to get the equipment and tools they need. Initial costs are much lower in comparison to buying the equipment outright. Payments will also be predetermined and fixed, making it easy to balance budgets. As we move closer to complete digital transformation, leasing technology hardware provides businesses with the opportunity to get access to the latest technology right now. Previously, businesses would have to weigh up the pros and cons of purchasing new technology versus keeping outdated equipment, leading to delayed upgrades which often come at the expense of growth, productivity and development. This isn’t an issue when leasing equipment, as you can upgrade to the latest equipment by replacing large upfront costs with lower monthly payments spread over a period of time. One of the immediate advantages of this, is that working capital can be invested elsewhere in the business, which in turn creates opportunities for business development. InnoVent offers leasing and lifecycle management solutions for the procurement of IT equipment. While some organisations pay cash or take out a business loan for their technology, InnoVent offers asset leasing solutions that free up an organisations cash reserves and allows for repayments to take place over a period of 36 to 60 months. InnoVent prides itself on offering their clients access to the latest technology, helping them to stay a step ahead of their competition. InnoVent’s reverse logistics process also eliminates the hassles of storing and disposing obsolete assets.  Clients can choose between a complete equipment refresh, a contract extension, or returning their outdated assets. With 15 years of leasing experience globally, InnoVent has perfected their technology-leasing services. InnoVent operates in South Africa, UK, Zambia, Tanzania and Zimbabwe. For more information on leasing technology, visit www.innovent.co.za. This article was published in partnership with InnoVent.