RS Components (RS), the trading brand of Electrocomponents plc (LSE: ECM), a global multi-channel distributor, has introduced a new desktop multi-tool 3D printer offering three different fabrication methods: an FFF (fused filament fabrication) 3D printer; a CNC router; and a laser cutter and engraver. The ZMorph VX offers professional print quality, reliability and a choice of dozens of fabrication materials to engineers, designers, artists and educators undertaking one-off projects, prototyping or mass production. The ZMorph VX is available either as a basic 3D printing set, upgradable at any time with additional interchangeable toolheads for extrusion, CNC milling and laser engraving, or as a full set including all toolheads and accessories. The main printer unit features a thick aluminium body with fully enclosed electronics, a flat borosilicate 3D print worktable, a reinforced x-axis carriage and an LCD touchscreen. A fully automatic calibration system provides unprecedented ease of use. The 3D printing set comes with a 1.75 mm single plastic extruder with a 0.3 mm nozzle (additional nozzle sizes of 0.2 and 0.4 mm are also available), a heated worktable for 3D printing, a cooling fan, plus a starter pack of fixative and PLA filament material. A wide range of other plastics can be used for 3D printing, including ABS and its derivatives, PVA, PET, ASA, nylon, high-impact polystyrene, TPU, and some thermochromic and flexible plastics. Using the optional Dual Extruder toolhead, models can be created using two different materials at the same time. For example, highly detailed mechanical models can be printed with water-soluble support, or coloured images can be placed on 3D objects. An interchangeable “hot end” mixer nozzle blends different coloured materials in varying proportions during extrusion, allowing colour gradients and graded colour variations to be achieved. The CNC PRO toolhead converts the VX into a desktop CNC milling and engraving machine, for use with wood, polycarbonate, carbon fibre plates, HDPE, acrylic glass, machining wax, modelling board, Dibond-like composites, copper laminates for PCBs, POM acetal and PVC foam. The 3D print table can be swapped out for a sturdy aluminium CNC worktable with pre-set holes to provide a flat, stable surface and easy clamping. The Laser PRO toolhead can engrave and/or cut such materials as wood, leather, copper laminate, paper, cardboard, felt and thin gaskets. ZMorph’s Voxelizer software provides an intuitive user interface for both beginners and those wanting fine control over the 3D printing, CNC routing and laser engraving processes. The latest version includes 3D filters that help users make unprintable models printable using smart support structures. The working area of the ZMorph VX is 250 x 235 x 165 mm (toolhead dependent). Positioning precision is 14 micron for the x- and y-axes and 0.6 micron for the z-axis. Layer resolution is 50–400 micron. “The ZMorph is an ideal product for the workbench, as it provides multiple tools to enable design engineers to bring their visions to life,” said Alison Hutchings, Global Portfolio Manager at RS. “It’s both practical and versatile, with interchangeable heads and a wealth of materials that will provide our customers with a cost-effective multi-tool solution.” The ZMorph VX is now available from RS Components for delivery in South Africa and across Sub-Saharan Africa.   This article was published in partnership with RS Components.