By Norwalk, Conn. Xerox (NYSE: XRX) workplace technology, services, software and apps continue to achieve industry recognition – most recently from IDC and Keypoint Intelligence – Buyers Lab. “Both of these recognitions reflect how Xerox positively influences the way work gets done in the most secure, automated and simple way possible,” said Joanne Collins Smee, chief commercial officer, Xerox. “Being honored for the work we believe in is indeed gratifying and pushes us even harder to be a tech powerhouse that constantly delivers innovative, smart solutions.” Xerox was named a leader in the IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Contractual Print and Document Services Hardcopy 2018–2019 Vendor Assessment. “The report reflects on Xerox’s longstanding leadership position in the market and its broad portfolio of software and service solutions,” said Robert Palmer, research vice president, IDC’s Imaging, Printing, and Document Solutions group. “Xerox’s focus on security and digital transformation have helped set it apart from competitors.” In addition to being recognized for its digital transformation offerings, the IDC MarketScape noted how “Xerox strives to provide more than just print solutions by offering end-to-end management of the entire office print infrastructure.” Other strengths noted in the report include Xerox’s security offerings, global service delivery model, flexibility and scalability of its managed print services and vertical market experience. For the fifth time, Xerox has won the prestigious Document Imaging Software Line of the Year award from Keypoint Intelligence – Buyers Lab. According to the group’s analysts, the wide variety of Xerox’s multifunction printer (MFP) apps and connectors, created by the company and its partner developers, were instrumental in winning the award. A number of document imaging solutions were also noted including Xerox’s Smart Workplace Assistant, DocuShare®, the Workplace Suite, the Easy Translator App and Xerox’s Workflow Automation Services. “The document imaging landscape continues to evolve, with the emphasis shifting to software applications and, even more recently, to MFP apps,” said Jamie Bsales, director, Solutions Analysis, Keypoint Intelligence – Buyers Lab. “Our analysis shows that Xerox is at the forefront of this movement thanks to its app-driven ‘Workplace Assistant’ strategy and strong portfolio of traditional document imaging applications. For more information, visit the Altron Bytes Document Solutions website. This article was published in partnership with Altron Bytes Document Solutions.