Samsung has unveiled its new Galaxy S10 smartphones, comprising the S10, S10+, and all-new S10e. It also showed off a 5G version of the S10. The company further revealed its new Galaxy Fold smartphone-tablet hybrid. The Galaxy S10 and S10+ and direct successors to the Galaxy S9 and S9+, while the Galaxy S10e is aimed at a lower price point while retaining many of the features packed into the more expensive devices. The Samsung Galaxy S10 retains the same curved display of the previous generation, but it has achieved a greater screen-to-body ratio by forgoing the top bezel in favour of the company’s Infinity-O design. This sees the front camera resting in a small cutout in the display. The device is powered by Samsung’s Exynos 9820 Octa-core chipset, and the Galaxy S10+ will be available with up to 12GB of RAM and an impressive 1TB of internal storage. Reverse wireless charging is supported by the smartphones and the devices will retain the 3.5mm audio jack while also being compatible with Samsung’s new Galaxy Bud wireless earphones. While the company launched the Galaxy S10e model with a smaller display and scaled-back hardware, it boasts an Infinity-O AMOLED display and a flat screen. Samsung added that the 5G version of its Galaxy S10 will be available exclusively through Verizon in the United States in the first half of 2019. Samsung South Africa product and marketing director Justin Hume said that pre-orders for the Samsung Galaxy S10 range will be available immediately in South Africa, and customers who pre-order a Galaxy S10 device would receive a free pair of Galaxy Buds wireless earphones. The Galaxy S10, Galaxy S10+, and Galaxy S10e will launch in South Africa on 8 March 2019 and will be available in three colours – Prism White, Prism Black, and Prism Green. Additionally, the Galaxy S10e will be available in a Canary Yellow colour from selected mobile operators. Hume added that the Galaxy Fold will be available in South Africa from the beginning of May 2019, although no local pricing for the device has been confirmed yet. He did say, however, that the device would be aimed at the premium market and could be priced at around 70% higher than the Galaxy S10+ 1TB model. In the US the device will sell for $1,980. Below is a breakdown of the local pricing for Samsung’s new Galaxy S10 smartphones.            