With ever-changing technology comes ever-changing business demands, which is why you should give lots of thought to which PC you choose for business. Whether you’re a start-up or an established corporate company, the PC you choose for your business can impact it in many ways – from productivity to exposing company and customer data. To help you make an informed and sensible decision, we spoke to Michelle Harding, a Sales and Marketing Specialist at Digital Generation and we have compiled a list of considerations when choosing a PC for business. Considerations when choosing a PC for business To make sure you’re not settling for a defective, slow device, business owners should consider opting for a moderately priced, well-known brand, instead of going for the budget priced device or something that is heavily discounted and lesser-known. It pays off not to buy cheap. As most jobs require employees to work from home and on the road, or have their computers at client meetings, it’s important to choose a device that is easy to carry. In this regard, weight and compactness are also important factors. Not every business is the same, and of course you should keep the job’s requirements in mind, but if you have a mobile workforce, or might have one in the next few years, a portable device like a notebook is a good option- just make sure it has all the ports necessary. As most businesses are performance driven, it’s always good to have a workforce that uses PCs that are parallelly inclined. A good starting point would be to opt for a computer with a CPU from a brand known for quality, such as Intel or AMD. As the most important part of a computer that affects speed and performance, the CPU is not a PC component that should be neglected, but as with portability, job or work requirements need to be kept in mind. Above all else, if there is one thing you should not compromise on, it’s security. According to Cybint Solutions, 43% of cyber-attacks target small businesses, and 64% of all companies have experienced online attacks. Further studies also suggest that most malware attack victims are small businesses. For this reason, PC users must ensure that the computers they choose offers security solutions that will protect them and their business from any types of attack. HP PCs for business are available from Digital Generation Digital Generation (DG) is an HP Partner First Platinum Partner and offers a wide range of HP PCs that are well suited to meeting the needs of organisations of all shapes and sizes. HP PCs have an enviable reputation for quality, scalability and efficiency, and are also moderately priced, secure, and offer business users the best possible PC experience to further productivity. As a long-standing HP Partner First Business Partner, DG is well positioned to compliment the exceptional HP product range and ensure that its South African clients enjoy easy, seamless and affordable access to the full HP offering. DG’s knowledge of the HP range allows them to make informed recommendations based on the specific needs of their clients. What’s more, the Platinum Partner status allows DG to operate as a convenient one-stop-shop for servicing and repairs of all the HP products they offer. To find out more, contact DGs dedicated HP team for all your HP requirements here. This article was published in partnership with HP DG.