Xerox spent much of 2018 celebrating wins and awards that recognised their strides to better serve both Xerox customers and channel partners. 13 Xerox print devices were named “Winter 2018 Picks”; CRN recognised the Xerox Partner Program as exceptional; the Xerox Security Summit was recognised as the top security event of 2018; and Xerox’s Global Partner Program of the Year was the recipient of the prestigious 2018 Channelnomics Innovation Award, of which Xerox was also a 2017 winner. Now with its most recent recognition, Xerox is building on that momentum and preparing for another year of success. It was announced last week that IDC named Xerox a leader in the IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Contractual Print and Document Services Hardcopy 2018–2019 Vendor Assessment 1. And that’s not all. For the fifth time, Xerox has won the prestigious Document Imaging Software Line of the Year award from Keypoint Intelligence – Buyers Lab. According to the group’s analysts, the wide variety of Xerox’s multifunction printer (MFP) apps and connectors, created by the company and its partner developers, were instrumental in winning the award. Xerox kicks off 2019 with recognition for both managed print and document imaging software. Behind the Win Xerox’s longstanding leadership position in the market and its broad portfolio of software and service solutions paired with their focus on security and digital transformation have helped set Xerox apart from its competitors and put them in the spotlight again for yet again. In addition to being recognised for its digital transformation offerings, the IDC MarketScape noted that “Xerox strives to provide more than just print solutions by offering end-to-end management of the entire office print infrastructure.” Xerox continually works hard to help small and medium businesses improve productivity and channel partners drive revenue, and managed print is an important part of that mission. Partners can turn to the MPS Essentials Suite to make MPS deployment easy and profitable. The MPS Essentials Suite is a value-rich package of tools for providing secure authentication, mobile print functionality, advanced scanning capabilities and productivity-enhancing apps that help customers work better, and channel partners grow. Other strengths noted in the report include Xerox’s security offerings, global service delivery model, flexibility and scalability of its managed print services and vertical market experience. A number of document imaging solutions also helped propel Xerox to this recognition including Xerox’s Smart Workplace Assistant, DocuShare, the Workplace Suite, the Easy Translator App and Xerox’s Workflow Automation Services. Learn more about Docushare, or how to find out how Xerox Easy Translator stacks up against Google Translate. As the document imaging landscape continues to evolve, the emphasis is shifting to software applications and MFP apps. The analysis from Keypoint Intelligence Buyers Lab shows Xerox at the forefront of this movement thanks to its app-driven ‘Workplace Assistant’ strategy and strong portfolio of traditional document imaging applications. Says Xerox leadership, “Being honored for the work we believe in is indeed gratifying and pushes us even harder to be a tech powerhouse that constantly delivers innovative, smart solutions.” For more information, visit the Bytes Document Solutions website. This article was published in partnership with Altron Bytes Document Solutions.