Samsung recently launched its new line-up of Galaxy S10 devices, which includes the Galaxy S10e, S10, and S10+. A standout feature is that Galaxy S10 has dropped the traditional top bezel most modern smartphones have and now includes a cutout in the display to house the front-facing cameras. The new flagship smartphones also command premium price tags, with the high-end Samsung Galaxy S10+ priced from R20,999 for the base model and up to R35,999 for the version with a whopping 1TB of internal storage. Samsung’s new smartphones are spread across multiple price brackets, however, and the most heated competition in the South African market will be against Huawei’s high-end devices. Huawei’s Mate 20 Pro, which launched last year, is a particularly strong contender against the new Samsung devices. To see how they stack up, we compared the specifications, features, and pricing of the Samsung Galaxy S10+ and Huawei Mate 20 Pro.  Despite being launched four months earlier, the Huawei Mate 20 Pro trades blows with the Galaxy S10+ in terms of specifications. It is also important to note that Huawei had a headstart over Samsung in implementing its new chipset, with the Mate 20 Pro powered by the 7nm HiSilicon Kirin 980. Samsung’s new Galaxy 10 devices run off its 8nm Exynos 9820 processor in South Africa, which should offer similar performance to Huawei’s high-end device. Both the Samsung Galaxy S10+ and Huawei Mate 20 Pro feature curved displays and triple-lens rear camera systems, although there are marked differences in the camera hardware. The Mate 20 Pro has a much higher megapixel count on its rear camera system, but the Galaxy S10+ sports a variable aperture wide lens for improved low-light shots. The Galaxy S10+ has a slightly less-powerful LTE modem compared to the Mate 20 Pro, along with a slightly smaller battery. A full comparison of the devices’ specifications are below.  The two smartphones are very similar in design and power, although the Mate 20 Pro favours a wide notch for depth-sensing facial recognition while the Galaxy S10+ has a cutout in its Infinity-O display to maximise screen space. The pricing for the two models we compared is below: Both smartphones also have cameras with AI-powered object recognition, text translation, and photography enhancement, and both devices support reverse wireless charging. The Samsung S10+ has a dedicated Bixby button which can be remapped to other apps, but will always open Bixby when held or double-tapped. Conversely, the Mate 20 Pro has only the standard power and volume buttons, all of which are placed on the right of the device. Gamers should note that the Mate 20 Pro supports Huawei’s GPU Turbo 2.0 technology, which provides greatly improved performance in mobile games and gives it an edge over other manufacturers in this regard. Samsung on the other hand supports Samsung Pay, which is arguably the most useful smartphone payment app on the market, especially in South Africa where a payment app which relies on both MST and NFC is far more useful than NFC-only apps. With their specifications and design so similar, the pricing of the two smartphones could play a deciding role for potential buyers.