This month Eskom started load-shedding again, which has left millions of South African households and businesses without power. Load-shedding happens when Eskom’s power supply cannot meet demand, and the company shuts down power in a controlled manner. This is done to prevent a complete grid blackout, where it would take weeks to get the country back online. “When demand exceeds supply, what happens is you have overloading of generators, transformers, cables, and switch gear,” electricity expert Chris Yelland explained. If there is an overload and equipment starts to trip, the overall electricity supply decreases, but the demand stays the same. This places even greater strain on the parts of the grid still on, causing them to overload and trip – once again reducing supply. Yelland said if you had an aerial view of the country, you would see these cascading trip-outs spread as a wave of darkness. Besides leaving the country without power, a national blackout would require Eskom to restart power plants without electricity, called a “black start”. This could take up to three weeks. Robbie van Heerden, a senior energy specialist at the CSIR, previously said a blackout would be a disaster “akin to civil war breaking out”. He explained that during a blackout, darkness, no or minimal telecoms, water schemes running dry, social unrest, and looting would occur. Western Cape Premier Helen Zille explained in 2015 that while generators will be able to provide some reprieve, their fuel will run out. “Cellphone companies can no longer transmit signals. Radio transmitters also die. So do ATMs,” said Zille. Sewage pump stations would overflow, and hospitals and clinics would also stop functioning. “The criminal justice system, including courts and prisons, would grind to a standstill. Public transport would come to a halt. Shops would close.” “Life as we know it, in a modern economy, cannot function without electricity,” she said. A total power blackout is an unlikely event, but according to a 2015 City Press report Eskom has secretly conducted a simulation to test how its systems would handle a total loss of power. The exercise, code-named Breaking Dawn, tested areas such as emergency responses and how the crisis would be communicated to the media and public in the event of a complete blackout. The secret exercise saw Eskom’s managers and operational staff who are part of the “divisional tactical command structures” take part. This raises the question as to how South Africans can prepare for the unlikely event of a total blackout. Trade union Solidarity has released an emergency plan to help people prepare should Eskom fail to supply power.