Premium mobile phone brand, TECNO Mobile, is accelerating its expansion into South Africa in the coming months.  Having dominated most of the African mobile phone market over the past 13 years, TECNO have now turned the attention to South Africa to expand their dominance into Africa’s most prominent nation. TECNO started offering its mobile devices to South African customers in 2017, and has already made great strides, become a popular brand to the mass market. Building on a successful first two years in the South African market, the brand’s expanded product portfolio is part of a larger nationwide strategy to increase accessibility and sales, while continuing to offer high specification products and quality sales services. TECNO Mobile has become one of the key smartphone providers in the global market. TRANSSION, TECNO Mobile’s parent company, boasts a brand portfolio comprising leading mobile phone brands in emerging markets, including phone brands TECNO, itel and Infinix; Carlcare for after-sales services, oraimo for smart accessories, and Syinix for home appliances. In 2018, TRANSSION sold 124 million mobile phones globally. According to IDC figures for 2018, TRANSSION ranks 4th in global mobile phone brands and holds the largest mobile phone market share in Africa. Their global sales network covers over 70 countries in emerging markets including Nigeria, Tanzania, Kenya, Ethiopia, Egypt, India, Pakistan, Indonesia, Vietnam and Bangladesh. Focusing on providing high performance and cutting-edge smartphones that use the latest technology at a great price point, TECNO smartphones have become incredibly popular throughout Africa due to the exceptional value-for-money they offer. TECNO Mobile listens to local customer needs and delivers localized smartphones to match. TECNO was the first dual-SIM handset supplier to the African continent, and was ranked first in the 2018 Africa Mobile Phone and Smartphone Ranking by the IDC. One of the biggest reasons for TECNO’s dominance over the African market is the fact that it creates phones that are designed to optimise the mobile experience for African users – particularly in terms of their cameras. Facial recognition software present in TECNO devices has been tailored to the faces of African users, and skin colour detection is also optimised to these users – ensuring superior selfies for these users. TECNO also tests its cameras under a variety of lighting conditions that are commonly found in African society to ensure that its colour detection technologies are optimally trained. TECNO has been focusing on global markets expansion in recent years. To this end, it started its partnership with English Premier League champions, Manchester City, in 2016 to provide valuable products and services across the world. TECNO has garnered a following with tech-savvy buyers who expect more from a smartphone and focuses on providing this improved functionality and value to the mass market. Some of its best devices that achieve this include the TECNO CAMON 11 and TECNO SPARK 2, both of which are both available in the South African market. The TECNO CAMON 11 is equipped with phenomenal specs, including a dual-camera system, a 6.2-inch notch display, 32GB memory, facial recognition and a fingerprint sensor – all for just R2,999 at participating Foschini Group retailers (Hi-Online, Foschini, Exact, Sportscene). The TECNO SPARK 2, with a 6-inch display, 13MP camera, fingerprint sensor and a 3,500mAh battery for R1,599, stands out as an entry-level smartphone. TECNO Mobile uses the latest technology, listens to customer needs and delivers high specification smartphones which are continuously tailored to the South African market, allowing local consumers to keep up with the latest trends and underscoring the brand’s positioning. TECNO truly lives up to its motto – “Expect More”. Learn more about TECNO’s smartphones on their Facebook page. This article was published in partnership with TECNO.