Gartner’s Q2 2019 PC market statistics show that Lenovo remains the biggest PC brand in the world thanks to strong year-over-year growth. Lenovo is followed closely by HP and Dell in terms of PC market share, and together these three brands account for 64.1% of all PC shipments globally. “These top three vendors continued to gain share in the PC market taking advantage of economies of scale,” Gartner said. “Intel’s CPU supply shortage in the first half of the year accelerated this trend.” These sales statistics include desktop PCs, notebook PCs, and portable premium products, but not Chromebooks or iPads. Lenovo saw impressive performance compared to the same period last year, with its shipments growing by double digits in all key regions except Latin America. HP’s worldwide PC shipments increased 2.6% in the second quarter of 2019 versus the same period last year. Gartner said the company’s growth was boosted by strong business PC demand which offset weaker mobile PC shipments. Dell recorded its sixth consecutive quarter of PC shipment growth in the second quarter of 2019. Below are the best-selling PC brands in the world, ranked by market share. Despite various negative projections around PC shipments, the global PC market by 1.5% in the second quarter of 2019, with shipments totalling 63 million units. Demand for PCs in 2019 was driven greatly by the need for consumers to update business machines to Windows 10. “Worldwide PC shipments growth was driven by demand from the Windows 10 refresh in the business market in the second quarter of 2019,” said Gartner senior principal analyst Mikako Kitagawa. “Desktop PC growth was strong, which offset a decline in mobile PC shipments.” Gartner said there are also signs that the Intel CPU shortage is easing, which has been an ongoing impact on the market for the past 18 months. The shortage mainly impacted small and midsize vendors as large vendors took advantage and continued to grow, taking market share away from smaller vendors that struggled to secure CPUs. The EMEA PC market saw 1.7% growth in the PC market with business demand remaining strong. Consumer demand remained relatively weak, however, with many mainstream users not seeing enough innovation outside of gaming and high-end mobile PCs.