Jaguar has been winning numerous awards across the automotive industry recently, and this is not without good reason. The brand is known for creating some of the most iconic designs in automotive history, and continues to pave the way in premium car design. Jaguar’s recent winning streak didn’t happen overnight, however. It was built on years of innovation and has been guided since 1999 by renowned designer Ian Callum’s watchful eye. Callum has won both the Royal Designer for Industry award and the Minerva Medal for lifetime achievement in design. He was also recently awarded a CBE (Commander of the Order of the British Empire) in the Queen’s Birthday Honours List for 2019. Jaguar isn’t all about classic looks – it is more than willing to inject a bit of cheeky defiance into its vehicles, too. This design spirit goes all the way back to the now timeless E-TYPE – the car Enzo Ferrari famously said was “the most beautiful car ever made,” upon its release in 1961. The praise continues today with the seemingly endless accolades awarded to the F-PACE, E-PACE and all-electric I-PACE. This year I-PACE took the world by electric storm, snatching up an unheard-of award trifecta with the 2019 World Car of the Year, World Car Design of the Year, and World Green Car awards. This recognition came on top of an already large collection of other global awards including European Car of the Year, International Engine & Powertrain of the Year and more than 40 other recognised titles around the globe. Stuff Magazine also awarded the Jaguar I-PACE its overall Car of the Year in 2018. The Jaguar F-PACE took home both the World Car of the Year and World Car Design of the Year honours back in 2017 when it debuted as Jaguar’s first-ever SUV, while the E-PACE leapt to the top of its segment, winning BBC TopGear Magazine’s coveted Crossover of the Year, also in 2017. It looks like history tends to repeat itself for Jaguar, as it continues to be recognised the world over for designing some of the most beloved and distinctive vehicles the auto industry has to offer. This article was published in partnership with Jaguar.