When it comes to your business, security should be one of your top priorities. Flaws in your security systems can result in various issues for your business – from compromised customer data, to being held hostage by ransomware. It is therefore important that you prioritise true cyber security – and this doesn’t just mean using the right hardware and software. Cybersecurity is a comprehensive system which also requires buy-in from your staff. Many businesses also make the mistake of slacking on educating their staff on how to protect against cyber threats because they think that cybercrime “won’t happen to me.” This is an incredibly risky decision, as proven by the fact that 42% of African companies were affected by cybercrime in 2016 alone. The Cyber Academy offers interactive online training and lessons that help your staff to learn key cyber awareness skills that ensure they don’t leave themselves open to exploitation by hackers. Lessons are from a mix of ethical hackers, security professionals, and other tech experts – all of whom are highly knowledgeable in their respective fields, and can provide users with a variety of important and highly practical tips and takeaways. One of the key takeaways that The Cyber Academy imparts in its courses is that hackers aren’t simply the stereotypical, nefarious-looking “hooded man” stereotype who lurks in dark corners. Instead, anyone could be a hacker – it is a surprisingly accessible activity and it is therefore important that your company is protected against it. They provide courses that can cater to every type of employee in your business – from those with basic tech skills, to IT specialists – helping your business to stay secure against all sorts of cyber criminals who are looking to access your business information and assets. There are four main training courses run by The Cyber Academy – all of which are targeted at specific staff groups. These are: After taking these courses, your staff will be cognisant of the potential cyber threats and exploits that could be leveraged against them, as well as how to prepare against them The Cyber Academy is running a cybersecurity seminar across the nation – bringing its Meet the Hacker lessons to your city. A professional hacker will be leading the seminar, and will provide a wealth of knowledge from the perspective of someone who has experience on the other side of the cyber security battle. Topics covered at the conference include: A great bonus of this seminar is that it will be held across five different South African cities – meaning that you won’t have to travel to Johannesburg or Cape Town just to attend. The schedule for the Meet the Hacker seminar is as follows: Tickets are only R870 per person for a limited time only, so sign up today to avoid disappointment. This article was published in partnership with The Cyber Academy.