If you have a special event or conference planned for the end of the year, we have good news for you. Gallagher Convention Centre is offering amazing specials for a variety of year-end event options – which means you will save while having an unforgettable experience and enjoying unmatched service. Gallagher offers a variety of year-end packages, which range between the Classic Lunch or Dinner Package, the Crystal Lunch or Dinner Package, and the Diamond Lunch or Dinner Package, as well as a Cocktail and Party Package at R400pp (excl. Vat), and a Showcase Package at R850pp (excl. Vat). Lunch specials include two courses – you can choose between a starter and main option or a main and dessert option – while dinner packages include three courses. Year-end specials are only valid for bookings made before 31 March 2020. Gallagher’s discounted year-end packages are outlined below. For the perfect year end function, treat your employees to a classic lunch or dinner buffet. In these packages there are two buffet menus to choose from. Each table will be set with 1 jug of juice and tea and coffee is served after dinner. These packages also include: The classic lunch package costs R495pp (excl. Vat), while the classic dinner package costs R560pp (excl. Vat). If you would like to change your buffet menu into a set menu, just add R45.00pp. If you would like to add a starter to your lunch package, add R45.00pp. In this package there are also two buffet menus to choose from. Each will be set with 1 jug of juice and tea and coffee is served after dinner. This package also includes: The crystal lunch package costs R600pp (excl. Vat), while the crystal dinner package costs R650pp (excl. Vat). If you would like to change your buffet menu into a set menu, just add R45.00pp. If you would like to add a starter to your lunch package, add another R45.00pp. In these packages there are also two buffet menus to choose from. Each table will be set with 1 jug of juice and tea and coffee is served after dinner. These packages also include: The diamond lunch package costs R650pp (excl. Vat), while the diamond dinner package costs R695pp (excl. Vat). If you would like to change your buffet menu into a set menu, just add R45.00pp. If you would like to add a starter to your lunch package, also add R45.00pp. Amaze your guests with Gallagher’s showcase package. It includes the following: Perfect for a year-end function, a Christmas party, or an awards ceremony. This package includes: Gallagher is also running a full day winter conference special – valid until end of July. It’s perfect for any winter event and will give your guests the opportunity to enjoy hot soup options during the break, as well as hearty lunch selections in the afternoon. The package includes: To best accommodate organisers, Gallagher offers a single-call solution where organisers can secure pre-qualified suppliers without having to look any further. To book your function today call +2711 266 3000, or email them via gallagher@gallagher.co.za. This article was published in partnership with Gallagher.