Peter DeSantis, VP of Global Infrastructure at Amazon Web Services (AWS), delivered the keynote address at the 2019 AWS summit, highlighting the versatility its cloud computing service model. The key to the success and power of AWS lies in directly treating the reasons that people are wanting to move to the cloud, said DeSantis. “Almost always, customers want to move to the cloud because of the agility it affords them,” said DeSantis. DeSantis spoke to how Amazon originally used a single, “monolithic” piece of software that was capable of doing everything – from running websites to managing customer service. “This was an incredible piece of software, but it had one big problem – it wasn’t scalable,” said DeSantis. For this reason, AWS transitioned its business model from this monolithic software to microservices, which ensured that each smaller piece of software can do whatever is required of them within specialised areas . Today, DeSantis said, AWS boasts the broadest and deepest platform for instances, with over 200 instance types for “virtually every workload any business needs.” He also added that there is more machine learning happening on AWS’s cloud platform than anywhere else, making AWS the market leader in AI services. DeSantis said that AWS asked its customers about what they wanted from blockchain. Two answers soon emerged as being particularly common. Some companies want a transparent ledger, he said, while other companies want a decentralised management platform. AWS has developed solutions for both of these users, said DeSantis. For the first group, Amazon QLDB is a fully-managed ledger database that is transparent, immutable, and cryptographically verifiable. Then, for those who want a decentralised platform, AWS offers a fully managed blockchain service, which allows users to choose between the currently available Hyperledger Fabric platform or the upcoming Ethereum version. DeSantis outlined how the global source of data is increasingly becoming the billions of edge devices active around the world. He added that 75 billion connected devices are expected to be online by 2025. “AWS has the most complete platform for IoT,” said DeSantis, highlighting that it offers support in three key areas: data services, control services, and device software. “AWS IoT can easily scale as your business evolves,” said DeSantis, and added that the platform can make it easier to manage your devices even with intermittent internet connectivity – making it a great option for developing nations or rural IoT connectivity. “Amazon has a long heritage in machine learning,” said DeSantis. This includes the likes of Amazon Alexa and its machine-powered storefront, he explained. “Our goal is to use our vast experience to help developers and scientists build intelligent applications.” DeSantis claimed that more machine learning is happening on AWS-powered platforms than anywhere else. Amazon Aurora remains the fastest-growing service in the history of AWS, said DeSantis. Aurora is a relational database that is MySQL and PostgreSQL-compatible which brings traditional enterprise database technologies to a more affordable and simple platform. “Tens of thousands of customers are flocking to Aurora, with us witnessing 2 times customer growth over the past 3 years,” said DeSantis. He attributed the growth of Aurora to how active AWS has been in developing the solution, with 35 features built for it in the last year alone.