By Cheryl Otstott WorkCentre 6515, Phasers 6510 and 3635 users and operators please stop by the Xerox Support YouTube channel to check out new content.  Many new videos have been uploaded for these models in the last few weeks. These videos run the gambit from How to Unbox and Power On to Setting Up Wi-Fi Network and so many features in between. Head over to the Xerox Support YouTube channel and check them out.  They offer full step-by-step instructions to help you get set-up in no time.  Many of the popular features and set-ups are covered.  For example scanning and driver installation are covered.  This library of videos help you to get the most out of your printer.  Maybe even introduce you to features you have not used yet. We want you to get the most out of your printer that is why we continue to update and post new videos.  For example, there is a video for scanning to Windows 10 PC folder. I have posted that video below. <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> As you can see from this video, the steps are easy to follow and take you through the entire process in a little over 4 minutes.  You can pause the video to complete steps before continuing on to the next step.  That makes these videos great for training or just a refresher. On the channel the playlists have been created for each printer model so you can easily find the information that is important to you.  However, remember that some of the features are similar from printer family to printer family so you may be able to find help with a feature in another printer’s playlist.  This is especially true for video about step ups on the PC or Mac.  As an example the videos for adding / installing the driver on the PC or Mac is basically the same from printer to printer so if there is not a driver install video on your printers play list search for driver install to find one that might work for you. Grab the popcorn and head on over to YouTube Xerox Support Channel and watch some videos. For more information, visit http://bytesdocumentsolutions.co.za This article was published in partnership with Altron Bytes Document Solutions.