Leading email and data security company Mimecast today announced its first Cyber Resilience Summit, set to take place at the Sandton Convention Centre on 29 August 2019. Built around the theme of ‘Resilience Now. Resilience Together.’, the Cyber Resilience Summit will bring together local public and private sector IT leaders, Mimecast customers, and local and global Mimecast experts in hands-on, knowledge-transfer sessions focused on key cybersecurity and cyber resilience issues affecting modern organisations. Paul Stafford, Vice President of Africa at Mimecast, says, “IT and security professionals have an enormous task to minimise the disruptions caused by increasingly sophisticated cyberattacks, human error, technical failure and compliance complexities. Not only are email-borne attacks increasing, more than half of South African respondents in our latest global research believe it is likely or inevitable that their organisation will suffer a negative impact from a successful attack this year. Despite this, only one in two local firms have a cyber resilience strategy in place. We believe that an effective cyber resilience strategy is a robust way to maintain business productivity in this era of disruption and have called on our channel partners and customers to join us for a series of lively and important discussions and presentations.” Modern public and private sector organisations are under constant threat of business disruption. Mimecast’s latest State of Email Security Report, a global annual study conducted in collaboration with Vanson Bourne, found a nearly two-thirds increase in impersonation attacks at South African firms, with 69% of organisations impacted by such an attack reporting a direct loss in terms of customers, data or financial losses. “Delegates will explore with us how, together, we can make the world more secure and resilient,” adds Stafford. “Our business environment is increasingly interdependent, making teamwork and collaboration essential if we are to build more resilient organisations. The Cyber Resilience Summit will create a powerful platform for such collaboration and act as a springboard toward a more resilient future.” Speakers and topics to be announced within the next few weeks. For more information and to register, please visit www.cyberresiliencesummit.com/za.