Picture the scene. You’ve just arrived back at your holiday accommodation after a wonderful evening game drive in the bush. The sun has set and the air is freezing, so you can’t wait to get inside and get warm. You rush indoors, turn the heater on, kick your shoes off and dive into the bed, wrapping a blanket tightly around you. You breathe a sigh of relief; you’re comfortable, warm, and ready to start watching some series on your Huawei MediaPad T5. All is right with the world. The new Huawei MediaPad T5 delivers an immersive entertainment experience, allowing you to experience your favourite series or movie in unrivalled resolution and video. The device comes equipped with advanced 8-Core CPU hardware and Android 8.0 Software. To warm things up a little, the device is currently priced at R3,499 – saving a whopping R500 on the RRP. A free cover is part and parcel of this special, allowing you to snack on your guilty pleasures without dirtying your new device[1]. If you tire of your series, you can always turn your attention to your Huawei Y5 2019 and look at the beautiful sunset pictures you took on your game drive today. With its 13MP camera and large aperture of f/1.8, the Huawei Y5 2019 is the perfect camera for bush shots – you can wave goodbye to those blurred photos and say hello to high definition visuals that can be snapped while the game drive vehicle is in motion. The Huawei Y5 2019 also has a 32GB memory, so you can take as many photos as you want. The RRP of this ideal holiday companion is R1,999. The offer is inclusive of either a R100 voucher or an additional 32GB SD card, which provides even more storage space2. The leather-feel back of the device also provides an aesthetically pleasing look of sophistication, allowing you to travel in style. These devices are available at these special prices at Huawei Online Store www.huaweistore.co.za Hi Online MTN, Vodacom and the following stores: Ackermans, American Swiss, CNA, Edgars, Exact, Foschini, Jet, Markham, PEP, Sportscene, Sterns, The Fix, Totalsports, and Truworths. [1] Depends on stores, limited number of giveaways available. 2 Depends on stores, limited number of giveaways available. This article was published in partnership with Huawei.