There are many myths about lightning. Almost all cultures on Earth have their own beliefs about what causes it. Firstly, we need to know how to think critically about lightning. Why are there so many myths about lightning? Could it be that previous generations didn’t fully understand the complex science behind lightning? Could it be that these myths have been passed down from one generation to the next without being seriously questioned? It is time to start thinking critically about lightning. Lightning is a sudden natural electrical discharge of a very short duration and high voltage between a cloud and the ground or within a cloud, accompanied by a bright flash and typically also thunder. The truth of the matter is that lightning is dangerous. It is a most consistent weather killer on earth. It kills more people than hurricanes, tornadoes or floods. Lightning kills approximately 24 000 people around the world every year. And approximately 240 000 people will be struck or injured but survive a lightning strike, often with severe disabilities. Lightning is a completely random and anonymous killer. Deaths due to lightning are almost completely preventable if people heed the safety measures. Lightning can strike one directly. It can also strike one indirectly – by contact with an object such as a pole or a tree that was struck directly. Lightning can ‘side flash’ from a struck object, such as a tree, to a nearby victim. Its current can also flow from the soil beneath. This earth current can flow up one limb and down another of the victim, which can result in injury or even death. In other words, lightning can travel through the ground like ripples on the surface of the water. Recent research published in the South African Journal of Science explained another way in which lightning can injure people – namely lightning’s pressure blast wave. This pressure blast wave is almost the same as that of a 5 kg TNT bomb and can injure people within 10 m of a lightning flash. This is about enough energy to blow up a concrete pavement. Lightning is dangerous. One should not tempt fate. When thunder roars, go indoors. Source: The Conversation