There’s good news for all businesses. Just like the cloud has made available new ways of paying for software and services once the preserve of big companies, the ‘as a service’ model is putting disaster recovery within the reach of all. That’s according to Renier Du Plessis, Manager, Cloud Services, ContinuitySA. He explains that Disaster Recovery as a Service (DRaaS) rests on the same concepts of syndication, sharing and operational expenditure associated with Software as a Service. “DRaaS, and in particular Managed DRaaS, provides you with the everything required to keep your business running when the unexpected happens,” he says. “But because it is delivered at a low monthly cost, it makes disaster recovery accessible for just about any business.” Managed DRaaS, continues Du Plessis, is a popular option because it combines the cost and scalability benefits of the cloud model, while acknowledging the complexity of disaster recovery. In this model, a proven business continuity provider offers DR capability which includes computing and network infrastructure, as well as a shared secure physical facility. The facility is a ‘second office’, equipped with desks, chairs, computers and printers and everything else required to get your work done. More than that, a dedicated business continuity specialist provides the necessary expertise to scope and implement the best solution for individual requirements and budgets. This includes best practice and processes to ensure the solution remains current. A managed DRaaS service is also backed by skilled and experienced personnel who start by analysing your business and its systems. Those crucial to getting work done are identified, protected and procedures put in place, so they are accessible from the remote DR site. Perhaps most importantly, these experts are on hand to help through an actual disaster, a high-pressure period where faulty decision-making can have devastating consequences. “Disaster recovery depends on more than just access to alternate technology. It also requires offices and the associated infrastructure, and it has to be tailored to your company’s specific needs. Most importantly of all, it should be guaranteed to work when needed,” Du Plessis confirms. He says the model is growing in popularity precisely because disasters tend to affect businesses unevenly. This provides the headroom for syndicated facilities. For example, even in a major disaster like an earthquake, catastrophic damage tends to be limited to a concentrated area. Most disasters are highly regional in nature: a fire, for example, or a burst pipe might keep one or several businesses out of their offices but is unlikely to cause a rush to the nearest DR facility. DRaaS makes accessing an alternate workplace and the technology to get your job done no matter what easy and less expensive, Du Plessis reiterates. “And when the ‘managed’ element is added, it means you get the expertise to quantify the data and applications most important to your business and set their recovery terms. It’s an important insurance policy which keeps your people working even in extenuating circumstances.” Additional information about ContinuitySA can be found at www.continuitysa.com. This article was published in partnership with ContinuitySA.