Whether in the workplace or on the go – it’s important to have a laptop that provides you with powerful performance and ease of use wherever you are working from. Acer is well-known for its reliable, attractive, and powerful laptop products, and their new Swift 7 notebook should be a major consideration for anyone looking to buy a new work laptop. The Swift boasts a 14-inch display, yet manages to fit this into a smaller chassis by pushing the screen-to-body ratio up to 92%. Just as smartphones have begun a bezel-less revolution, so too is this trend catching fire in the laptop space – and Acer is leading the charge with incredibly effective innovation. This bezel reduction means that Acer has managed to fit a 14-inch display into the form factor of a traditional 12-inch laptop. This means that you get access to a full-sized display while reducing the size of the device you need to carry around – perfect for businesspeople who are always on the go. The display is an FHD IPS touchscreen and is protected with Corning Gorilla Glass 6 – a more tough and damage-resistant display material that simultaneously provides phenomenal image quality. The Swift 7 is incredibly thin (9.95mm) and light (890g), and Acer says it uses feather-light magnesium alloys to achieve this effect without compromising on the strength of the product. A Micro-Arc Oxidation finish ensures that the surface is smooth and elegant, while a fan-less design ensures that the machine looks a lot cleaner and simpler without the usual air vent that one finds on laptops. Many other features are integrated into the design of the laptop, including an integrated fingerprint-activated power button and a push-to-open web camera with 65-degree rotation capabilities. When I tried to type with the keyboard, I found the experience smooth and simple, with great key spacing meaning that it was easy to avoid making typing errors. The feedback was well-balanced, and the backlit keyboard was simultaneously useful in low-light conditions, without cheapening the business look that the Swift 7 presents. The Swift 7 may look and feel great, but don’t be fooled into thinking that it doesn’t hold its own in the performance department. Its 8th generation Intel Core i7 processor will help you to maximise your efficiency at work, while up to 16GB RAM and a 512GB PCIe SSD complements this processor with powerful memory and storage capabilities. Connectivity is a breeze, with 2 USB Type-C ports, alongside Thunderbolt 3, USB 3.1 Gen 2, and Display Port 1.2 ensuring that you’ll almost certainly be able to connect to peripherals with ease. The Swift 7 also boasts Gigabit Wi-Fi with 2.2 MU-MIMO technology, which ensures that you will connect to surrounding networks without any hassles. If you’re a professional who is often on the go, the Swift 7 boasts the perfect balance between aesthetics, portability, and powerful performance – ensuring that you’re at your best, wherever you are. This article was published in partnership with Acer Africa.