The past few years have seen internet (bitstream) over fibre become an increasingly popular connectivity option in South Africa and it follows that getting connected to the internet at home should be a simple process. However, finding out which type of connection suits you best, whether it is available in your area, and what installation and a monthly contract costs might be is a minefield of variables and choices. This is exactly what internet service provider (ISP) comparison site Find My Fibre wants to change, by providing ordinary South Africans with a user-friendly way of getting connected to packages that best suit their budget and needs. “While techies understand the ins and outs of how to select an internet service provider, what speed to choose, and whether it should be uncapped, unshaped, and all sorts of other combinations, the layman does not. For them, internet access is a utility, much like electricity and water, it should just work,” says co-founder Clint Muir. Co-founder Scott Robertson agrees. “People really do not care how their internet works – it just needs to give them fast, reliable access to music and video streaming services, social networking platforms, and other important digital solutions. They get annoyed when phoning an ISP and getting transferred from pillar to post, just to get somebody to explain to them how the process works. Our Find My Fibre platform reinvents the process putting the consumer at the core,” says Robertson. Find My Fibre utilize an easy-to-use four-step process which removes the complexity of choosing a ISP and communicates it in a way that is easy to follow and ensures assistance at each step. Using an innovative true mapping system that provides exact coordinates of the customer’s home, Step 1 determines whether fibre coverage is available in the area, which can be done via the Find My Fibre website. Once availability is confirmed, the second step lists all available offerings in the area. Users can select the best deal according to their budget, their fibre speed requirements, and preference between a capped and an uncapped offering. “We have agreements in place with some of the top and established ISPs in South Africa, so consumers can rest assured that they are choosing between multiple packages from the best in the business. With so many fly-by-night operators around, many have already burnt their fingers by going with the wrong option and losing thousands of Rands in the process,” says Muir. Once a package is selected (Step 3) and viewed, the order (Step 4) can be placed through Find My Fibre who will take care of the process with the ISP on the consumer’s behalf. It’s that simple. “If a customer is uncertain about which option is right for them, we also have a call centre with experienced agents, all of whom have ISP backgrounds. These trained agents will get an understanding of the customer’s needs and advise them accordingly in terms of packages to consider,” says Robertson. Find My Fibre is committed to facilitating the connection between the consumer and the ISP in a way that is beneficial to all parties. Visit Find My Fibre today to compare deals, fill out the form, and someone will be in touch to get you connected hassle free. This article was published in partnership with Find My Fibre.