As Wireless Internet service providers scramble to outshine each other with low-cost data deals, one provider is choosing to rebuild its Wireless network and attack high connectivity costs directly at the source. Leading ISP BitCo has completed work on its carrier-grade Wireless network to rival the very best. BitCo, established in 2006 and operating under IECNS and IECS licences since 2011, has just completed an impressive upgrade to a large portion of its Wireless network. This will guarantee increased redundancy, better quality of service, and an unsurpassed Internet and telephony experience for all business Wireless subscribers. “Our ambition is to deliver excellent Internet and telephony solutions through constant innovation,” said BitCo CEO Jarryd Chatz. “That’s why we’ve chosen to rebuild certain high-sites from the ground up. Stability was a problem prior to the upgrade. This was due, in part, to capacity limitations on both backhaul radios as well as the fibre, old equipment, power, and batteries.” Over the past several months, BitCo has spared no expense to upgrade its Wireless network with all selected sites being upgraded to new bigger Ciena switches, Netonix power over Ethernet switches, backup battery power, and higher capacity SIAE backhaul radios. The new radios not only provide higher throughput, but also self-modulate under severe weather conditions to provide reliable connectivity. Added to this, BitCo invested in an additional 10Gbps backhaul to provide relief for network congestion. Strategic sites throughout the Northwest, Johannesburg, Pretoria, KwaZulu-Natal and Cape Town have also been upgraded with Radwin (Carrier Grade) point-to-multipoint radios to deliver up to 100Mbps speeds per customer. These improvements have been implemented with future growth in mind and have paved the road to deliver even faster and more reliable Wireless solutions, as the equipment installed is easily upgradable. With an overwhelming number of connectivity offers available, Wireless Internet consumers have been bombarded with messages surrounding unbelievable promotions and specials. Chatz believes that these “amazing deals” fail to address the infrastructure challenges preventing most South Africans from accessing reliable and cost-effective Internet. BitCo, on the other hand, is addressing these challenges with the upgrades that have just taken place. Chatz said that the upgrades will go a long way towards solving consumers’ practical Wireless connectivity challenges. “The new, improved network will allow our subscribers to enjoy increased efficiency, stability, and peace of mind, thanks to our signature guaranteed 99% uptime.” Following the upgrade, BitCo Telecoms also announced new Wireless packages covering its Radwin areas. Its has slashed the standard Wireless pricing, in some cases by up to 70% over the term. Please note that pricing excludes VAT and existing wireless customers can upgrade with a free installation. All the Wireless packages are a concentrated blend of BitCo’s highly reliable, uncapped, and business-optimised Internet. The bandwidth carries a small 1:3 (local and international) contention ratio, and it is asynchronous. The packages also include an option of 24/7/365, round-the-clock support for only R250 per month – with options to add a managed router, voice channels, and additional virtual PBX services. As stocks are limited, BitCo is offering this promotional deal on a first-come, first-served basis to new customers and as an upgrade option to existing customers. For more information on BitCo Wireless pricing and to check coverage, please visit BitCo’s website. This article was published in partnership with BitCo Telecoms.