Your laptop is one of the most important possessions you own. Whether you’re checking your emails, writing up documents, or just surfing the web – having a good quality laptop from a reputable brand like HP will make a big difference to your daily life. However, the process of purchasing a new laptop can be complicated as there are many specifications to consider. These include the processing power, the amount of memory and storage, and the quality of graphics processing. It is also important to take into consideration features such as battery life and the quality of the device’s build. Finally, you have to consider the crucial point that is pricing. Are you getting a good deal, or are you buying technology that does not justify its price tag? To help you purchase the right laptop for your needs, here are a few tips. According to laptopmag, most PC manufacturers release new laptops within two time periods: June to December, and February to April. When new laptops are released, they often include new technologies that will improve the functionality of the laptop. This is a double-edged sword: While these laptops are state-of-the-art, they’re also likely to cost a lot of money. Likewise, the previous-generation laptops will now be behind the curve in terms of technology but will also see their price reduced substantially. If you’re willing to use a previous-generation laptop in order to save money, the period soon after a new laptop release is a great time to find a good deal on the previous generation laptop by the same manufacturer. However, if you’re looking to buy a laptop with the latest technology, it is worthwhile waiting a few weeks to see if the price will drop or if distributers will offer special deals. Laptopmag suggests that the best deals tend to appear in July, August, November and December – so keep an eye out for specials in these months. Buying laptops isn’t just about choosing a laptop within your price range. Some laptops are designed with specific users in mind, meaning that they might provide you with less value than other laptops that are listed at a similar price. Additionally, it is worth considering your future needs when it comes to your laptop. You may only use your laptop for basic tasks at the moment, but consider the possibility that you will be using it for more complex tasks in the future. If so, you should consider investing in a better-quality laptop so that you don’t have to replace your current model too soon. It is also worth considering the fact that technology, including both hardware and software, continues to grow at a rapid pace. Even if you aren’t a power user, you should account for the possibility that computing will require more resources as technology improves, and your current laptop might not cut it in the future. Rather buy up and feel confident in the fact that your laptop will be good enough for many years. Laptops are expensive, and while it can be tempting to pay less for a smaller brand, this is often not the best idea. It is incredibly important that your laptop is reliable, as if your laptop runs into technical or physical problems, this can result in the loss of important data. Much like when buying a car, buying a laptop by a well-respected brand will put your mind at ease as you can rest assured that your laptop is unlikely to run into any unexpected issues. One of the world’s most respected laptop brands is HP. HP was founded in 1939 and entered the computer market back in 1966, meaning that they have over 50 years’ experience of creating some of the best desktop and laptop products to enter the market. Pinnacle is one of South Africa’s leading ICT distributing companies and offers a vast selection of HP laptops. As an authorised distributor, Pinnacle is one of the first to market when new HP laptops are released. View the selection of HP laptops on their website today! This article was published in partnership with HPI Pinnacle.