For Euphoria Telecom, delivering positive and empowering customer experiences has always been of paramount importance and in 2019 the brand is proudly expanding upon this central principle by paying special attention to the sporting interests of its ever-expanding customer base. As Euphoria Telecom CEO John Woollam explains,  “We have 4500+ happy customers  across South Africa and we have built strong, long-term relationships with many of them over the years. Through that process we have come to understand that the majority of our customers have very similar hobbies and recreational sporting pursuits, with golf and cycling being two of the most popular pastimes.  That’s why we decided to move the Euphoria brand into the sporting space but we wanted to do it in an organic and authentic way. That’s how the idea for Pitch & Pedal came about”. Pitch & Pedal is a new sporting review portal curated exclusively for Euphoria Telecom by Ben Karpinski of The Bounce. “Through Pitch & Pedal we are now extending our customer experience to a new level,” says Woollam. “Ben is the prefect partner for us in this new venture. He has built a solid 35K+ following on Twitter alone and has become a popular sporting personality in his own right. He is passionate about creating compelling sporting content with broad-based appeal. We wanted to tap into Ben’s extensive knowledge and experience in the the worlds of golf and cycling and pass those insights onto our customers who are always on the hunt for the best experiences in both of these arenas”. Pitch & Pedal which kicked off at the beginning of July, will provide Euphoria customers (and other avid sports enthusiasts) with the best golfing, road cycling and mountain biking news and reviews from across the country. Each month will see the release of a golf course review, a cycling event preview, an equipment review and mini podcast-style interviews with various well known cycling and golfing personalities. “Through Pitch & Pedal we are now extending our customer experience to a new level, says Woollam”.  “In addition to providing exciting and relevant sporting information,  our customers can now stand a chance to WIN some fantastic prizes every month. These include vouchers from the Pro Shop and Cycle Lab. Both of those awesome brands are part of the Morecorp Group which is one of our newest national customers. ” All Pitch & Pedal article and podcast content will be hosted in the BLOG section of the brand new Euphoria Telecom website and links will be posted on Euphoria’s social pages (Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter) The very first Pitch & Pedal article is now live on the Euphoria website where Ben Karpinski reviews Royal Johannesburg & Kensington Golf Club – the East Course. This is undoubtedly one of Johannesburg’s top golfing spots and was recently named Africa and South Africa’s best course at the 2018 World Golf Awards. You can read Ben’s in-depth review here: http://www.euphoria.co.za/golf-course-review/. You can also listen to Ben’s first podcast review of the popular Wines2Whales Cycle Race here: http://www.euphoria.co.za/pitch2/. Since its inception back in 2009, Wines2Whales has become a real attraction on the mountain bike calendar with riders making special trips from around the country to enjoy 3 days of riding bliss. Ben chatted to Seamus Allardice from the race team about what makes the race so special and why you should experience it no matter your level of competitiveness in the sport. For more on the race, and how to go about entering, click on through to https://wines2whales.com/. July’s Pitch & Pedal prize is a round of golf for 4 at Royal Johannesburg Golf Club. To enter simply ‘Like’ follow the Euphoria Telecom Facebook, page and tag the three friends you’d share the great prize with  in the comments section with the answer to this simple Pitch & Pedal article question – In what year did Royal Johannesburg’s layout undergo renovation to its greens and bunkers? “At Euphoria Telecom, we’re passionate about matching the awesome customer service we offer through our business with similarly enjoyable sporting encounters,” concludes Woollam. “It’s all about making our current and potential customers feel valued and rewarded. We don’t just want to talk to them about our product. We want to connect them to positive and uplifting experiences both in and out of the office”. This article was published in partnership with Euphoria Telecoms.