By Traci Maynard There is a lot of noise coming from our partner/reseller channel talking about speed of technology developments, enhancements and advances from the world leading vendors across hardware, software, as well as the Cloud. For this reason, we hosted the Axiz Cloud Enablement Summit at the newly launched Land Rover Experience Centre, Lonehill, to provide a platform where we can diffuse some of the myths around cloud by way of one example. The event covered the Microsoft Cloud as a core business conversation for our partners to have with their end customers. Furthermore, some smaller end customers were keen to take the first steps, but were not sure how and when the best time is to do so. Addressing these points, Microsoft speaker Nick Keene, Business Group Lead for the productivity suite, shared some key inputs and ideas on how this can be done, in which Microsoft’s public Cloud, Azure, forms a key part. At the Cloud Summit, partners had the opportunity to network with Axiz Azure experts, who assisted with and advised on one-on-one questions. In addition, our experts detailed Adobe and their Creative Cloud offering together with the latest voice solutions from our Logitech Video Conferencing (VC) product stable. Using these products in a business is the ideal way to save on expensive travel across the country. The final products that were showcased were Targus docking solutions, which enables users to go from laptop to desktop with a single USB connection. The way we work has changed over the last few years and having all the tools to do your job is now key to workplace success. Axiz is a solution aggregator focused on offering ground breaking value-added solutions to its registered partner channel.  Axiz houses over 50 brands, each working in tandem with our vendors and partners to deliver holistic solutions, which are best tailored to the needs of this channel. For email contacts reach out to the products teams through the following email addresses: Watch the video that reflects on the event below. <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span>