MyBroadband recently released its Q2 2019 speed test and mobile app results, which showed that Supersonic is the best Internet Service Provider in South Africa. While Supersonic topped the ratings in the past, it remains impressive that the service provider could achieve such high customer satisfaction rankings less than a year after it launched. The fibre ISP inherited numerous challenges from Smart Village which was acquired by MTN and rebranded as Supersonic. Following its launch late last year, Supersonic has quickly climbed in the customer satisfaction rankings. MyBroadband asked Supersonic what is behind its strong performance and how it improved its fibre network. The Smart Village fibre network had numerous reliability and performance problems, which Supersonic addressed. The company explained that it tackled the networks in bigger estates first and then moved towards the smaller ones. “We initially replaced all the backhaul links with MTN fibre back into the core network,” Supersonic said. “We then upgraded the internal fibre backbone within the estates. This included removing any coaxial and copper legacy connections and replacing it with fibre.” The final step was to replace all old equipment which was still used with the latest GPON technology, which allows Supersonic to offer up to 500Mbps speeds to home users. Supersonic also improved its support channels to ensure that its customer service levels are of a high standard. The ISP implemented WhatsApp for business in January 2019, operating this platform from 07:00 to 22:00, 7 days per week. “By using WhatsApp, we have seen a huge improvement in customer service and turnaround times. We now boast an average of a 20-minute turnaround time.” After its WhatsApp success, Supersonic added Facebook Messenger, Instagram, and Twitter support to the existing set of tools in April 2019. “We plan to also integrate a bot into the platform to be able to handle queries like invoice and statement requests, TopUps, line upgrades, and eventually, full customer sign-ups,” it said.