Digital risks to businesses have extended beyond the traditional data centre infrastructure. Businesses now need to make sure they have all the avenues covered and are continuously monitoring their risks. Businesses also need to understand all the touch points within their IT environment. This can be done with a resilience service provider like Disaster Recovery South Africa (DRSA), according to its Sales Manager Mark Beverley. “The ability to act immediately against denial of service, ransomware, and other cyber-attacks will set modern organisations apart from their competitors,” said Beverley. “IT systems can no longer afford to take hours or days to recover from a malicious event.” He added that end-point devices, edge computing centres and IoT devices also need to be included in resilience methodologies. “Resilience service providers like us can provide flexible solutions without long-term lock-in contracts,” explained Beverley. “We can build infrastructure for customers within minutes, move your workloads, and make additional resources available instantly. These advantages make recovery time objectives achievable and demonstratable.” Beverley said that Hyper Visor replication, third-party software and the arrival of localised cloud solutions can also provide simple ways for DRSA to ensure IT resilience for your business. The days of tedious backups, long-term contracts and legacy data movement products are numbered, he said, claiming that replicated solutions can now be commissioned in extremely short timeframes. In today’s ever-evolving IT landscape, flexibility is another key consideration for business to make. “This is because in live production environments, resilience components also require agility in tandem with production elasticity. CTOs require the agility of their resilience components to match the fast pace of change set by evolving businesses,” said Beverley. “Three to five-year projections are no longer relevant and can hinder a business’s capability of remaining relative in a competitive marketplace.” Beverley highlighted that it is important that you review your current business resilience strategy. He recommended that you ask yourself the following questions: To be able to answer these questions well, Beverley said you should investigate the new technologies that are available. This is because things are changing rapidly, and the latest solutions can make your planning and operations much easier. Once you’ve done this research, Beverley said that you’ll need to match your businesses requirements to the solutions available. “You will also need to evaluate your current resilience service providers, to ensure they understand these solutions and keep abreast with the latest technologies available,” said Beverley. If not, he recommends that you consider moving to a provider that offers this knowledge and ability – such as DRSA. “A chosen resilience plan with DRSA can be repeatedly tested and, equally importantly, ensures that your business is able to monitor risk on a constant basis,” said Beverley. “High quality providers like us can deploy solutions that can measure and alert executives to potential risks – which can change daily. “ Don’t wait for those dreaded yearly audits to highlight risks – be proactive and understand your risks on a daily basis. DRSA is expertly equipped to provide flexible and suitable business resilience services to your business during times of crisis. It has a wide scope of knowledge regarding business resilience – ranging from disaster recovery and cloud services to data recovery and cyber security. Get in contact with DRSA today and find out how it can help your business! This article was published in partnership with DRSA.