Numerous research studies and experts agree on the importance of play for growing children. In fact, because play has been shown to have a significant impact on child development, the United Nations High Commission for Human Rights recognises play as an essential right of every child. However, our time-starved society has reached the point where doctors are prescribing playtime for stressed, depressed children and their equally anxious, always-connected parents, according to the latest Flux Trends’ 2019 Report. Generation Alpha (the children of the millennial generation), have on average about 12 hours less playtime than their ambitious millennial parents did, with education-packed agendas that leave little time for fun and games. Participating in play activities, improves cognitive ability, problem solving and social skills while reducing stress and even depression, which according to further studies are on the rise the world over. The same Flux Trends report references a study in South Africa that suggests 24% of school children in Grade 8 to Grade 11 surveyed had experienced feelings of depression, hopelessness and sadness. Engaging in shared play time plays a significant role in parent-child bonding and provides invaluable opportunities for parents to role model positive values and behaviour to their children. Between school and extra mural activities, lifting, careers, homework, mealtime and more the reasons for a lack of quality time to simply play are endless. And while often we are physically in a space with our children the endless pings from the phone demanding a response and the temptation to quickly scroll through Facebook ensure our attention is focused elsewhere. Which is why Hasbro – leading toy and board games company – created a video to highlight the importance of carving time out during the day to engage in focused play with children. The evocative – and sweetly relatable – video of youngsters discussing what they’ll do to convince their parents to spend more time playing with them – like making them coffee, and doing the washing. What they don’t know is that their intended audience is listening behind the scenes. It’s a heart-warming moment of realisation for the parents especially that time is precious, but some moments are priceless. The message is intended as a ‘reflection’, an opportunity to look back on your own day and consider the small changes we could each make in order to make time for more quality playtime moments and memories. <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> Visit Hasbro Gaming @MonopolySouthAfrica on Facebook for more information. This article was published in partnership with Hasbro.