Since the first iPhone was released in June 2007, Apple’s premium smartphones have become some of the most popular and iconic products on the market. While competitors such as Samsung and Huawei have made great strides over the years to compete with Apple in the premium smartphone market, the iPhone is still a cultural phenomenon. For this reason, whenever a new version of the iPhone is in the works, rumours are quick to spread, and leaks often surface, as Apple fans from across the globe speculate and investigate what the next generation of iPhones could hold. Apple is expected to launch new ranges of iPhones in both 2019 and 2020. The former is expected to be an upgraded version of the current Xs range, while the 2020 iPhone range is expected to be more groundbreaking in its design and features. We’ve listed some of the rumours floating about the internet when it comes to Apple’s upcoming iPhone ranges. MacRumors expects the 2019 range of iPhones to use upgraded A13 chips from their supplier, TMSC. The current range of iPhones uses A12 processors, and the new chips will reportedly offer improved performance compared to the 2019 devices. Leaked specifications and a render based on these leaks also suggest that this year’s Xs and Xs Max iPhones may use a triple camera system. According to OnLeaks, this camera system will see the lenses arranged in a triangular shape, but within a square bump on the back of the device. This new camera system is expected to use a wide-angle lens, and The Verge believes that this camera system will also enable a new Smart Frame feature, which will capture the area in front of the framed part of the photograph – allowing photographers to change the photo’s perspective and framing after snapping a shot. The front-facing camera will also reportedly receive a boost, being upgraded to support the capture of slow-motion video at 120fps. The 2019 iPhone range is also rumoured to use a new Taptic Engine, which is expected to replace its current 3D Touch system on the iPhone Xs and Xs Max devices. According to Raymond James analyst Chris Caso, however, the changes to the iPhone in its 2019 range will be relatively insignificant compared to previous years. Instead, Caso speculates that Apple will keep its more interesting innovations for next year’s range. Caso also believes that this may lead to this year’s iPhone being the least successful new smartphone range Apple has released in a long time. “Our call may well be early – we expect this year’s iPhone cycle to be the weakest in years, and today may not be the right time to buy ahead of that weakness,” he said. In terms of pricing, Softpedia has reported that the 2019 range of iPhones will cost as much as the Xs range does, despite the fact that it will offer somewhat improved technology. 2020 is expected to be the year that Apple makes more significant changes to its iPhone line-up. Apple is expected to launch the biggest iPhone ever, with iPhone Hacks claiming that the iPhone Xs Max’s 2020 successor could be 6.7 inches in diameter. On the other hand, the iPhone Xs successor is expected to be just 5.45 inches, which may appeal to users who have been asking for a smaller smartphone. iPhone Hacks expects that both of these smartphones will offer 5G capabilities and that the third phone in the range – an iPhone Xr replacement – will not. JP Morgan analyst Samik Chatterjee, however, disagrees, speculating that all three of these 2020 iPhones will offer 5G connectivity and OLED displays. Chatterjee has also speculated that Apple will launch a fourth, more affordable iPhone in 2020, which will be about the size of the iPhone 8, and will offer neither 5G connectivity nor an OLED display. Leaker Ice Universe has claimed that Apple is in discussions with Samsung and LG around using a display that offers a 60Hz/120Hz switchable refresh rate. Apple already uses a display with a switchable refresh rate in its iPad Pro range, but at the moment, its iPhones are locked in at a refresh rate of 60Hz.