The .ZA Domain Name Authority (ZADNA) has announced that Vika Mpisane has been terminated as the organisation’s CEO. Mpisane’s firing was effective from 16 July 2019. This comes after a lengthy disciplinary process which began in January. Motlatjo Ralefatane, the chairperson of ZADNA’s board, announced Mpisane’s axing in a letter sent to members of the organisation dated 17 July. MyBroadband first reported Mpisane’s suspension in May, after industry sources informed us that an acting CEO had been at ZADNA’s helm since December with no official notification from the organisation. Ralefatane explained that ZADNA had been locked in a disciplinary hearing with Mpisane for months, as he was constantly delaying the process. “Mr Vika Mpisane was suspended for serious hybrid acts of misconduct including mismanagement of ZADNA funds and others,” Ralefatane told MyBroadband at the time. Ralefatane said that Mpisane was suspended on 5 December 2018. Mpisane was asked whether he would be fighting against the outcome of the disciplinary hearing and his termination, but he did not respond to requests for comment. He has also not responded to any of MyBroadband’s multiple requests for comment on this matter since May. ZADNA was asked whether there was a ruling at the disciplinary hearing and what the ruling was, but Ralefatane also did not respond to requests for comment. The text of Ralefatane’s letter is reproduced below, and the full letter is embedded below that: Members would recall that Mr Vika Mpisane was on suspension pending the disciplinary hearing, which has been concluded. Stemming from those disciplinary actions, Mr Vika Mpisane’s employment as the Chief Executive Officer of ZADNA has been terminated with effect from 16 July 2019. Currently, Mr Peter Madavhu will continue as the Acting Chief Executive Officer of ZADNA until further notice. On behalf of the ZADNA Board, I would like to thank all the members for their confidence and support for ZADNA. (function() { var scribd = document.createElement("script"); scribd.type = "text/javascript"; scribd.async = true; scribd.src = "https://www.scribd.com/javascripts/embed_code/inject.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(scribd, s); })();