Commvault’s second annual ‘Connections Live’ event for South Africa recently took place in Joburg, focusing on trending topics in cloud, back-up, and recovery. Connections Live aims to help local businesses address their data challenges, and highlights how the Commvault suite of solutions and partner networks is able to resolve them. One of the guest speakers at the conference was Mark Walker, Associate Vice President of the IDC for South Africa, who said that MultiCloud and Hybrid Cloud is becoming mainstream. This is mainly because businesses are moving faster towards digital transformation and the rapid adoption of cloud computing in their battle to remain relevant. As data grows in this digital world, businesses need a more diverse IT landscape, which today should ideally be founded on a multi-cloud or hybrid cloud environment. According to an article by ZDNet, Hybrid cloud has traditionally combined private cloud (either on-premises or hosted in a co-location facility) and public cloud infrastructure, with orchestration tools used to deploy workloads and manage the balance between the two. Multicloud empowers enterprises to use multiple cloud providers to distribute their workloads across numerous cloud environments to meet different technical or business requirements. “At its most granular level, multicloud means cloud-native applications built from containers and microservices using component services from different cloud providers.” The migration to cloud, however, is not without challenges and has tremendous implications on your data, how it is backed up, and how it is managed overall. According to Walker, an IDC report shows that integration, security, compliance, cost, data protection, and data location optimisation are among the challenges in multicloud and hybrid cloud data. As data consumption and creation continues growing, and businesses need to consider how to effectively manage their large volumes of data in a world where multi-cloud and hybrid cloud are becoming the norm. Walker said that the IDC’s South African CIO Survey for April 2019 shows that 55% of businesses are data users, and by 2029 that figure will stand at 75%. Wael Mustafa, Area Vice President for the Middle East, South Africa and Turkey (MESAT) for Commvault echoed this sentiment, stating that businesses need to have effective data management in place to ensure they are multicloud ready, especially as data grows faster than ever before. The IDC predicts that there will be an IT paradigm shift in the digital world, where co-existence will be become critical, as everything will be working together on-premise and off-premise. Walker laid out the following predictions: Restrictive data governance, which makes it is difficult for organisations to get a comprehensive view of what they hold, together with complex system configurations resulting in inhibition of good data use, means that organisations must deploy the right kinds of data platform architectures going forward. Commvault is a recognised global leader in enterprise backup, recovery, and data management across any hybrid environment. Their converged data management solution redefines what backup means for the progressive enterprise through solutions that protect, manage and use their most critical asset — their data. Commvault also places great emphasis on tcustomer experience, security, and assisting businesses with reductions in CAPEX and OPEX, which Walker said are big trends at the moment. According to the IDC’s report, customers and partners also agree that these are some of the main issues that need to be addressed when it comes to data management. Commvault can assist you to simplify data management, reduce the risks associated with multi-cloud migration, and improve productivity for your business. To find out more about how Commvault can assist you, visit their website. At the ‘Connections Live’ event, Commvault also unveils its simplest, most profitable partner programme in the company’s history. The global Partner Advantage programme offers new tools and capabilities which are designed to help partners accelerate business, expand the path to multiple revenue streams and consistently win more business. Through this programme, Commvault has embraced a partner-first mindset making it easier and more profitable for partners to do business with Commvault. Partners also have access to more rebates at higher percentages, a more lucrative and flexible year-end bonus programme, additional business development fund investments, and improved deal registration benefits. “We’ve listened to our partners and customers and built a stronger foundation for the mutual success of Commvault and its worldwide partner network based directly on their feedback,” said Riccardo Di Blasio, Chief Revenue Officer at Commvault. “The key objective for us is to make it easier and more beneficial for partners to do business with Commvault. We’re committed to our partner-first strategy and this program represents the simplest, most transparent and financially rewarding partner programme in Commvault’s history.” The enhancements to this programme are industry leading and clearly reinforce Commvault’s commitment to its global partner ecosystem. The new Partner Advantage programme offers four partner tracks: Distributor, Solution Provider, Global System Integrator and Alliances and Service Provider. The enhancements centre on Commvault’s Distributor and Solution Provider partners and are available now. Enhancements to Commvault’s Global System Integrator and Alliances and Service Provider tracks will be unveiled later this year. This article was published in partnership with Commvault.