Intel and AMD are the two dominant players in the PC processor market, and they are competing for market share both locally and abroad. Intel’s 9th-generation processors are its latest offering and they deliver great performance and energy efficiency compared to the previous generation of chips. However, AMD recently fought back with its 3rd-generation Ryzen range of processors, which it hopes will surpass Intel’s latest range in the eyes of consumers. There are a variety of factors which must be taken into account when buying a processor, including performance, energy efficiency, and pricing. To this end, we have compared the latest-generation PC processors from both Intel and AMD, taking into account these factors. Intel’s 9th-generation processors are stocked by South African retailers, while the new 3rd-generation Ryzen processors are still in the process of reaching the market. However, many retailers have already provided pricing for these CPUs ahead of receiving stock. An important consideration when purchasing a processor for your PC is that while almost all Intel processors include integrated graphics, only Ryzen processors with the “G” suffix offer this within the CPU. Intel processors with the “F” suffix do not include integrated graphics. On the other hand, while all Ryzen processors can be overclocked, only Intel processors with the “K” suffix can achieve the same feat. Below are the specifications and pricing of the AMD Ryzen 3rd-generation and Intel Core 9th-generation processors. All pricing was sourced from South African retailer Wootware. While these specifications give a good idea of the power of these processors, there are other considerations worth making. For example, Ryzen processors tend to be superior at multi-threading – due in no small part to the number of threads they can support – while Intel processors outperform AMD when executing single-threaded tasks. Interestingly, however, while Ryzen processors have generally had the reputation of needing more power than their Intel equivalents, the latest generation of Ryzen processors appears to be situated roughly on a par with its Intel competition. Benchmarks performed by Anandtech show that the Ryzen 7 3700X and Ryzen 9 3900X both compete favourably with their Intel counterparts – the Core i7-9700K and i9-9900K processors – when it comes to office work. In terms of gaming, however, Intel still comes out on top, although the gap between Intel and AMD processors in terms of gaming has diminished significantly with the release of these new processors.