Hetzner South Africa has rebranded as Xneelo as part of its global expansion initiative and to differentiate itself from Hetzner Online. Xneelo already has an office in Canada and intends to launch into new markets with tailored web hosting services. “Our international expansion means we need to change our name to avoid brand confusion with Hetzner Online, a separate company to Hetzner SA,” Xneelo brand manager Athena Turner told MyBroadband. While Hetzner SA now has a new name and logo, there are no other changes at the hosting company, which is known for its exceptional customer service. “Our company values, our founder and CEO, and our experienced leadership team who have been with us for many years remain the same,” Turner told MyBroadband. Hetzner South Africa was co-founded in 1999 by Hans Wencke and is headquartered in Cape Town. From its humble beginnings twenty years ago, the company has grown into South Africa’s most popular shared hosting provider, with data centres in Gauteng and Cape Town. In March 2016, the provider became the second South African host of the Johannesburg Internet Exchange (JINX), and the first to receive a 10Gbps connection upgrade. The rebranding to Xneelo is the next phase in the hosting provider’s evolution which will see it take on the global market. “We truly believe that by expanding internationally, we can take our customers along on this exciting growth journey, supporting them as they grow their businesses,” said Turner. Turner said the name Xneelo (pronounced ex-nee-lo) was inspired by a Latin phrase that translates into the ability to ‘create something out of nothing’. “We believe that our new name speaks to the resourcefulness, ingenuity and industrious spirit of our customers – and of our own team,” said Turner. “With this name change, we’re creating space for our team to grow into new territories and connect with even more businesses around the world.” She added that they are keeping their tagline “Trusted in Hosting” to retain the essence of who they are. The video below shows the new Xneelo logo. <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span>