Ride-hailing services such as Uber, Uber Eats, and Bolt (formerly Taxify) have become popular ways to access quick and easy transport or delivery services for many South Africans. These services allow customers to use an app to call a driver to their location within minutes, or to request that a driver deliver their meal to their current location. Drivers undergo various vetting processes by companies such as Uber and Taxify, but this is not necessarily enough for South African body corporates. MyBroadband was recently contacted by a reader who told us that the body corporate of their Johannesburg complex had banned ride hailing services including Uber, Uber Eats, and Bolt. In an email sent to residents of the complex, and seen by MyBroadband, the body corporate said that the decision had been made to ensure that the complex remained secure at all times. “Most drivers and occupants of the taxi vehicles are unknown to residents and are different on each occasion,” said the email. “As such, there is a huge security risk involved in allowing them into the complex.” The body corporate added that some of these vehicles block entrances and exits in the complex, while others park illegally – which is in breach of the estate’s rules and inconveniences residents. Members of the complex in question must now meet these vehicles outside the estate, and must also be dropped off outside the estate, with those who don’t abide by this liable to pay a fine. It was also clarified in the email to residents that the ban extends to scooters and delivery drivers. Uber actions a variety of measures to filter out bad Uber drivers so that customers feel safe when calling a vehicle. These include: Uber believes that these considerations will weed out bad parties, but this is clearly not enough in the eyes of certain South African estates. MyBroadband asked Uber to comment on the phenomenon of Uber drivers being banned from estates in Johannesburg, but the company did not comment by the time of publication.