Take a look behind the headlines with these insightful documentaries about people who made waves. All these documentaries are currently streaming on Showmax and DStv Now.  They were two of the biggest names in the Golden Age of Journalism, working at top New York newspapers through some of the most important events of the 20th century. Now, the journalists become the story through rare footage and interviews with family, friends and ex-colleagues. Watch it on Showmax or DStv Now »  Dive into the scandal that rocked Silicon Valley and the world. Tech entrepreneur Elizabeth Holmes catapulted into the spotlight at the helm of her blood-testing company, Theranos. Once valued at US$9 billion, it becomes worthless virtually overnight once her web of lies and fraud unravelled. This HBO doccie has been generating huge buzz! Watch it on Showmax or DStv Now »  Comedian and cartoonist Mike Judge (who also created Beavis and Butt-Head) is behind this fun and utterly different series that showcases different musicians through animated interviews. Find out more about James Brown, soul singer Betty Davis, George Clinton and more, and hear about the musical styles they embody. Watch it on Showmax now »  Two of the greatest movie stars ever also happened to be mother and daughter. Carrie Fisher and Debbie Reynolds had a famously tumultuous relationship, set against the bright lights of Hollywood stardom. It was even the subject of a semi-autobiographical movie, Postcards from the Edge. This intimate documentary takes a fresh look at both their lives – especially poignant since both died within one day of each other in December 2016. Watch it on Showmax now »  Meet the mobsters with in-depth interviews with John Gotti Junior, son of the infamous “Teflon Don”. Along with police documents and family photos, these paint a detailed picture of the inner workings of the Mafia. Find out how a son of the most famous gangster in America turned into a man who now wants nothing to do with organised crime. Watch it on DStv Now »  He’s one of the world’s richest people, yet he lives a simple life in the unassuming city of Omaha, Nebraska. Get to know Warren Buffett, investor and philanthropist, his thinking and his world. Watch it on Showmax now »  He’s won three Oscars and directed some of the best-loved movies of the past forty years. This documentary follows the incredible life and career of Steven Spielberg and features a host of stars and directors. Watch it on DStv Now»  Brett Kebble’s murder captivated South Africa and opened our eyes to a dark world of organised crime and bizarre criminal conspiracies. This is required viewing for anyone who’s ever wondered what really goes on in the South African criminal underworld. Watch it on Showmax now » If you’re not a Showmax customer, sign up for a 14-day free trial on their website. Did you know Showmax is free for DStv Premium customers? Find out more at www.showmax.com. If you’re a DStv customer, visit now.dstv.com and sign up to use DStv Now. You’ll be able to see the same channels and shows that you do on your decoder at home, except now you can watch on your laptop, phone or smart TV. This article was published in partnership with Showmax.