Western Digital is the largest data storage company in the world, with 55% of the world’s data being stored on its drives. One of the most popular products in its catalogue is its range of solid state drives (SSDs), which offer increased speeds compared to mechanical hard disks. Brad Bennett, senior channel marketing manager for the Middle East and Africa, said that in South Africa, the WD Blue SSDs are the most popular of the Western Digital SSD range. These SSDs offer a balance between price and performance – making them the ideal compromise for home users. “The Blue SSD is for your DIY users, your mainstream home users – your SSD will give them a little more speed and reliability, but it’s not the type of performance you’re going to get for a gaming perspective,” said Bennett. Western Digital’s 240GB and 500GB WD Blue SSDs are the most popular solid state drives sold locally, he said. Western Digital classifies its SSD ranges by colour, making it easy for buyers to identify the purpose and function of each SSD. Included in its catalogue are three SSD colour ranges focused on home and personal use. The WD Green range is the company’s cheapest SSD product, offering speeds that are superior to traditional HDDs, but slower than the the rest of the company’s solid state drives. These are targeted at home users looking to improve the speed of their storage device without breaking the bank. The WD Blue range is the mid-range SSD lineup. It balances price and performance in an attempt to find a middle-point that offers customers the best value for their money. The most expensive consumer SSD range are the WD Black models. This range offers the best performance, and is primarily targeted at power users like gamers and those who will be using video editing software. Western Digital also offers two more ranges of SSDs that are designed for specific applications. The WD Red range is designed to be used in Network Attached Storage (NAS) devices. These feature anti-vibration technology to ensure that up to 8 of these SSDs can be used together – something that is significantly more difficult to achieve with other WD ranges. Finally, the WD Purple range is designed for surveillance systems. These systems can be used by private customers who run their own home security or by more advanced organisations. These SSDs are designed to run 24/7 and can support up to 64 cameras per SSD. These products have been designed alongside industry leaders to ensure they provide optimal performance for security system users.