CrossFit deleted its Facebook and Instagram pages on 22 May 2019, and has explained its decision in a press statement. CrossFit was founded by Greg Glassman and Lauren Jenai in 2000 and includes high-intensity interval training, weightlifting and powerlifting, gymnastics, and other exercises. In its press statement the company described itself as a “contrarian physiological and nutrition prescription for improving fitness and health”. “It is contrarian because prevailing views of fitness, health, and nutrition are wrong and have unleashed a tsunami of chronic disease upon our friends, family, and communities,” it said. “The voluntary CrossFit community stands steadfastly and often alone against an unholy alliance of academia, government, and multinational food, beverage, and pharmaceutical companies.” CrossFit said it also defends the right of its affiliates, trainers, and athletes to build voluntary CrossFit associations and speak freely about their ideas and principles. CrossFit’s said it has catalogued its tireless defense of its community against overreaching governments, malicious competitors, and corrupt academic organisations. This has now extended to its Facebook and Instagram pages, after the company deleted the properties following Facebook’s decision to take down the Banting 7 Day Meal Plan user group without warning or explanation. The Banting 7 Day Meal Plan’s Facebook page is supported by Food Lovers Market and has over 1.6 million members. Over 1 million of its members are from South Africa and the group states that it supports all banters. “Our meal plans strictly adhere to the banting ideology of Low Carb High Fat,” the Facebook page states. CrossFit said Facebook’s decision to delete the page, even though it has since been reinstated, should give “any serious person reason to pause”. The company said Facebook oversees a significant share of the marketplace of public thought and has betrayed its responsibility and assurance of good faith, transparency, and due process. CrossFit said it therefore decided to remove its Facebook and Instagram pages as it “investigates the circumstances pertaining to Facebook’s deletion of the Banting 7 Day Meal Plan” page. CrossFit listed eight publicly-sourced complaints about Facebook’s actions, which include: “For these reasons, CrossFit has placed Facebook and its associated properties under review and will no longer support or use Facebook’s services until further notice,” it said. MyBroadband asked Facebook for comment, but the company said “We are not commenting on this”.