Microsoft is rolling out its May 2019 Update for Windows 10, which brings a host of new features. Customers who are ready to install the May 2019 Update can navigate to Settings > Update & Security > Windows Update, and select the Download and Install option. To show you what’s in store, we have outlined some of the best new features below. Windows Sandbox is a feature which allows you to run unknown .exe files without them potentially compromising your system. The sandbox tool creates a temporary virtual desktop environment isolated from the rest of your machine which is secure and easy to delete once implemented. This can be invaluable when downloading third-party software or opening attachments from unknown senders. It is important to note that Windows Sandbox is only available for Windows 10 Pro and Windows 10 Enterprise, and requires users to enable virtualisation capabilities in their system’s BIOS. This feature is disabled by default, and users with compatible systems will need to access the “Turn Windows features on or off” menu to change this setting. Another welcome feature in Windows 10 is the separation of the Cortana and Windows Search functionality. These two functions will no longer be coupled in the Windows 10 taskbar, allowing you to search without awakening Cortana. The overhauled search interface now lets you search across all files on your system and includes recent applications and various filters. Microsoft is also reducing the number of pinned apps in the Start Menu, making it easier to remove pre-installed programs from the menu. Additionally, Windows 10 will allow users to uninstall more of its built-in applications like Groove Music, Mail, Movies & TV, Paint 3D, and more. For those who prefer device-based authentication, Windows 10 now allows you to create an account and log into your machine without a password. Users will be able to create a Microsoft account by setting up a phone number as an authentication method instead of a password. Once you have logged in using the code sent to your mobile number, you will be able to set up biometric or PIN security for your standard sign-ins. One of the most important changes is the ability to pause Windows updates, greatly reducing the interference caused by these processes. All Windows 10 users are now able to pause updates while they are occurring, along with selecting when to install the next version of the operating system. This allows users to continue receiving security updates while avoiding feature updates for an extended period. A new light theme has been introduced, which will automatically be set as the default theme for Windows 10 Home users. This is designed as a lighter, white version of the current standard Windows 10 theme – which is more consistent throughout the operating system. Microsoft has also changed the default wallpaper on Windows 10 to better suit its new colour scheme. These changes will automatically take effect for Windows 10 Home users after downloading the update. 