Mimecast Limited (NASDAQ: MIME), a leading email and data security company, today announced the appointment of Brandon Bekker to Senior Vice President, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) to help manage the rapid growth within the region. In this newly created position, Brandon will be responsible for supporting the continued growth for Mimecast in EMEA and ensuring collaboration and consolidation across all markets in this important region. Paul Stafford, who previously was the company’s General Manager for the South African coastal region, has been appointed to Vice President for Mimecast Africa. Both positions became effective at the start of Mimecast’s new fiscal year, April 1, 2019. Brandon has a proven track record of leadership as he helped establish Mimecast as a market leader across various industries, including healthcare, financial services, retail and public sector in South Africa. As the new SVP of EMEA, Brandon will lead the entire EMEA region and will be based out of the London, United Kingdom office. Previously, Brandon successfully managed Middle East and Africa since 2013 and helped to grow the regional business by more than 75% since the company listed. Bekker has held various leadership roles since joining Mimecast in 2007. During his tenure, Brandon also expanded the business to serve customers in the Middle East with the opening of a Dubai office in 2016. Prior to Paul Stafford’s appointment, he helped develop the company’s regional business in South Africa. He brings with him a wealth of knowledge about the security landscape in Africa, the channel ecosystem and years of experience helping organisations manage evolving cyber threats. “Brandon Bekker has been instrumental in helping MEA customers understand the cyber threat landscape and the importance of how layering a third-party solution can improve cyber resilience when adopting cloud services like Microsoft Office 365. It gives me great pleasure to see him take on this new challenge to further support customers,” said Peter Bauer, Chief Executive Officer at Mimecast. “I am confident that he will bring the skills that helped drive customer success and growth in MEA to the rest of the region, particularly in our growing markets like Central Europe, and he will continue to motivate employees to do their best work, best teamwork and greatest learning.” “For more than 10 years, Paul Stafford has proven his commitment to helping customers manage their cyber resilience strategy, while also ensuring resellers and other partners are able to effectively service their clients. He has shown his dedication to customer success and his passion for leading enthusiastic and engaged Mimecast teams. I have no doubt that with Paul at the helm, Mimecast Africa will continue to focus on customer success, helping to guide customers as they work to strengthen their cyber resilience strategies to protect their organisations against the ever-evolving threat landscape,” said Brandon Bekker, senior vice president, EMEA. This article was published in partnership with Mimecast.