In the fourth industrial revolution, being disconnected is just not an option. In fact, it is has become farcical for businesses to experience more than a few hours of downtime. Businesses use Internet and connectivity solutions more each day as it empowers them to engage and interact with people and communities across borders. It also allows them to be heard and make their mark regardless of their company size or industry. Without it businesses are incapacitated and simply cannot be successful. Thankfully connectivity solutions distributors like Switchcom Distribution have got you covered. Switchcom is a dynamic and innovative ICT company founded in 2015 with the aim of bringing South Africa leading wired and wireless networking solutions. In recent years, the company has branched out into distributing fibre equipment, surveillance, networking cables, solar solutions, installation materials for high sites and VoIP equipment. Their comprehensive product supports Switchcom’s vision of providing our clients with end-to-end solutions. The company recently acquired sole distributorship for a Brazilian antenna brand, ALGcom – a first in South Africa. These antennas perform extremely well especially in high interference environments and outperform similar antennas from the likes of Ubiquiti and MikroTik. ALGcom antennas are compatible with radios from Ubiquiti, MikroTik, Cambium Networks, Mimosa, LigoWave and many more. Not only does Switchcom provide best-in-class solutions, but they also offer exceptional technical support as well as financing for resellers, installers, ISPs, WISPs and end users. What makes them stand out is that they are open over weekends should a customer require stock – and are the only distributor that does so. The company offers the option to purchase in bulk, which means that you pay a lower price per unit. What’s more is that you can get extended finance accounts of up to 120 days at 2.5% interest rate. They also offer free delivery on orders over R2,500 in Gauteng and on orders over R10,000 outside of Gauteng. Ts and Cs apply. Switchcom is also highly committed to giving you the best price and will match the price of items you find that are priced lower than their offers. Limitations apply. To find out more about their product offerings, visit the Switchcom website. This article was published in partnership with Switchcom.