The biggest cryptocurrencies on the market are going strong, and major exchanges remain optimistic about the future of the industry. South African Bitcoin and Ethereum exchange Luno said at the beginning of this year that it looked forward to a number of advancements in the blockchain field in addition to further recognition from regulators. It also cautioned “investors” and cryptocurrency owners to temper their expectations and remain cautious about dubious technologies. Luno provides South African cryptocurrency fans with an archive of tutorials and advice to help educate newcomers on the advantages and potential dangers of purchasing cryptocurrency, making it a central goal of the platform to improve secure adoption of the technology. The cryptocurrency exchange is still working hard and expanding its presence, and MyBroadband spoke to Luno Africa general manager Marius Reitz about the company’s plans for this year. Reitz told MyBroadband that Luno is working on its customer support platform as well as a number of new features. “We are investing heavily in better customer service and product experience in 2019, in addition to some exciting new product features and country launches,” Reitz said. “Since launching our new Africa HQ in Johannesburg, we’ve worked extremely hard on expanding our footprint across new markets and will soon announce new African country launches.” Luno recently launched its new African regional headquarters in Johannesburg, South Africa, from where it plans to expand into additional markets on the continent. “We’ve also launched a new team, Luno for Business, dedicated to working with businesses to help them onboard easier and create products and services that they need,” Reitz said. He added that Luno is working on new updates to its mobile applications, which will be aimed at improving the newcomer’s experience in the world of cryptocurrency. Luno has worked hard to improve its customer support infrastructure, which is a common stress point for cryptocurrency exchanges. The complex nature of cryptocurrency paired with the high-stakes environment makes support systems invaluable for cryptocurrency exchanges like Luno. “Some of the new features recently launched include faster customer service through live chat to all customers using Luno on our desktop and mobile applications,” Reitz said. Luno also launched a new security feature which allows users to disable the sending of cryptocurrency out of their Luno wallet. “You have complete control over the cryptocurrency that gets sent out of your Luno wallet, reducing the risk of losing money if your account ever gets compromised,” he said. The local cryptocurrency exchange aims to release a number of new features going forward, all of which are aimed at improving the user experience and confidence in the platform’s security.