Having a website has become a non-negotiable for businesses. While most business owners intuitively understand the importance of good design and functionality in the front-end, not all pay as much attention to what goes on behind the scenes – particularly when it comes to hosting. The choice of web hosting company often comes down to whichever one is the cheapest or offers the best deal at the time. This can lead to problems down the line as the hosting company directly affects how well – or poorly – your website performs. Selecting a web hosting company isn’t a decision that should be taken without proper consideration. Hosting your website through a local hosting company with a local data centre means improved speed for your local visitors. Supporting a local company also positively contributes to the economy through job creation and professional development of the local workforce. A website’s uptime directly affects how the business is perceived. When a website regularly experiences downtime, it not only drives away potential customers, but can also lead to lower ranking on search engines such as Google. A hosting company that can provide a stable environment will be able to guarantee uptime of at least 99.9%. 55% of users spend only 15 seconds on a website before clicking away. When a website is slow to display content, it will negatively impact conversions. A hosting provider that has the appropriate hardware will be able to provide greater speeds to your website. Your hosting company is your website’s first line of defence against online threats. A secure website also provides your consumers with an added level of confidence – especially if you have an online shop. Choose a hosting company that offers robust security measures against ransomware and other malicious software. While it might be tempting to choose a smaller hosting company that also offers IT and PC-problem support, they might not have the infrastructure to ensure superior stability, speed, and security for your website. Opt for a hosting company that has international carrier-grade server infrastructure. Always choose a hosting company that offers backups. Regular backups are essential to protect your website against viruses, hackers, ransomware, and human error. Should anything go wrong, an updated backup will ensure that your website can be restored in no time. Having an email address that is linked to your website presents a professional image to clients, and can be a very powerful business tool. Most hosting companies provide email solutions as part of their hosting packages. Before taking up the offer, however, do some research to ensure that they make use of a a reputable anti-virus and anti-spam solution. Last but not least, consider the company’s service reputation. Web hosting is an ongoing service, and choosing a company with an excellent reputation will mean less worries in the long run. Select a company that prides itself on customer service and is able to provide support, maintenance, and advice as and when needed. Domains.co.za can provide your business with a hosting solution that is local, high quality, fast, secure, and 99.99% uptime guaranteed. This article was published in partnership with domains.co.za.