Mind the Speed is South Africa’s newest fibre ISP and will offer excellent uncapped packages at the lowest prices in the market when it launches. Mind the Speed will launch in August 2019 and immediately offer services across the country’s biggest fibre networks. This includes Openserve, Vumatel, Frogfoot, SADV, and MetroFibre Networx. More fibre network providers are set to be added as commercial agreements are signed, said a Mind the Speed spokesperson. The ISP will only offer uncapped packages to users at a line speed of their choice – as long as the speed is supported by their fibre network provider – and Mind the Speed stated that there will not be any fair usage limits on their accounts. More good news for customers is that the new ISP promises the cheapest rates in the market when its products go live, along with a host of launch specials. “Currently, there is a lot of complexity in the market in terms of choosing the best fibre account. We want to eliminate this by only offering our customers premium bandwidth, with no fair usage limit,” said the company. Mind the Speed promises customers exceptional quality when they use their service, which is possible thanks to it owning and managing its own network – with direct capacity on two international fibre cables terminating in two data centres in the UK. The ISP also peers at local and international exchanges, including NAPAfrica, INX-ZA, LINX, AMS-IX, and DE-CIX. Furthermore, all Mind the Speed fibre accounts will be allocated 5GB of Redstor Cloud backup space, a free VoIP extension, a static IP on request, and IPv6 – dependant on the fibre network. To celebrate its upcoming launch, Mind the Speed is running a logo selection competition on its Facebook page. To enter the competition, like the Facebook page, select the design you think Mind the Speed should use as its company logo, and vote in the Facebook Poll. There are great prizes up for grabs – win a Ubiquiti AmpliFi mesh Wi-Fi system worth R3,595 – and winners will be announced on the Facebook page. Additionally, Mind the Speed will be giving away prizes every month to readers who like their page and share their articles on Facebook. “Having our potential customers involved in our brand from the start is important. We would also appreciate input with regards to features users would like to see integrated into our customer portal, and we will consider this input in the initial development phases,” said the company. This article was published in partnership with Mind the Speed.