What else is there that has the epic scope and in-depth world-building of Game of Thrones? Here are 9 addictive shows to stream in South Africa: Go behind the scenes of Season 8 of Game of Thrones in this two-hour documentary. The directors give their in-depth take on each episode, and you’ll see the special effects, magic and mastery that go into making each amazing scene. Watch it on DStv Now and Showmax »  This new series from HBO explores the devastating and chilling real-life 1986 catastrophe at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. The events around the accident, the ignorance and misinformation that followed and the devastating, long-lasting effects that followed. Watch it on DStv Now »  There is nary a dragon in sight in Succession, but plenty of Lannister-style family politics. Good news is season 2 drops on Showmax later this year. In the meantime, bingewatch season 1 on Showmax. Watch it on Showmax »  If the climax of Dany and Jon’s love story in Game of Thrones left you feeling hollow, fill the void with lashings of magic, witches, vampires and romance, set against the exquisite backdrop of Venice, in A Discovery of Witches. Watch it on Showmax »  Anne Lister returns to her ancestral home following a romantic rejection. Dressed head to toe in black, she is determined to save Shibden Hall, her crumbling family home. Inspired by the true story of a female landowner in 19th century England. Watch it on DStv Now and Showmax, starting on Tuesday 28 May at 22:00.  Reese Witherspoon, Nicole Kidman, Shailene Woodley, Laura Dern and Zoe Kravitz reprise their roles while Meryl Streep is added in a new season of the award-winning series. The women must face the consequences of Perry’s death. Watch it weekly from Monday 10 June on M-Net (101) and Showmax. Bingewatch Season 1 on Showmax »  If you thought Ramsay Bolton topped the charts in twisted cruelties, then this adaptation of Margaret Atwood’s contemporary classic book is the show for you. Season 3 of The Handmaid’s Tales starts 10 June on M-Net and Showmax, but if you’re a few episodes behind, seasons 1 & 2 are on Showmax »  A clash of bloodthirsty warriors, a world where old gods meet the new. Prophecies and power struggles for the crown in Kattegat, Wessex and Paris. It’s never too late to get into Vikings; all that’s missing is a white walker or two. Bingewatch Vikings from the beginning on Showmax »  This is world-building in a whole different genre, but just as nuanced. In a theme park populated by robots, powered by artificial intelligence and willing to turn a blind eye to morality, the rich play God. Look out for season 3 of Westworld coming later this year; in the meantime watch seasons 1 & 2 on Showmax »  This article was published in partnership with MultiChoice.