As security breaches continue to make headlines, it’s clear to see why organisations need to take additional steps to protect themselves. One key vulnerability that nefarious outsiders typically use are hacked credentials. MyBroadband recently reported on how hackers were able to access the emails and metadata of Microsoft Outlook users, using this access to steal their stashes of cryptocurrencies. Additionally, it was recently found that Facebook – one of the world’s biggest tech companies – had stored millions of Instagram users’ passwords in plain text – meaning that this data was heavily susceptible to being accessed by malicious parties. There is also often a need for organisations to comply with government privacy mandates when it comes to ensuring that users’ accounts are secure from cybercriminals. Kevin Beaver, an independent information security consultant and writer at Principle Logic, says that he often experiences the following issues with organisations’ authentication systems. Stronger authentication solutions often require organisations to manage and maintain many different infrastructures – making it an overwhelming undertaking. This is a likely reason for many organisations not implementing sufficient authentication measures. However, there is no excuse for leaving your business’ security compromised. Micro Focus has a solution that simplifies the process while improving authentication measures substantially – its Advanced Authentication product. Micro Focus’ Advanced Authentication open framework solution lets business run multiple strong authentication solutions on a single platform – as opposed to having to use a different infrastructure for each authentication method. By using a single platform, companies can save on costs while simultaneously increasing security levels – an undeniable win-win situation. Its power lies in how the centralised open architecture gives organisations access to an environment that is simultaneously adaptable and devoid of vendor lock-in. Due to the rise in prominence of complex hybrid environments, it has become important to ensure that application deployment and distribution is kept as simple as possible. To this end, Advanced Authentication is available in Docker containers, which bundle all Advanced Authentication dependencies into small packages. As a result, transferring this information is simple and doesn’t open up the risk of compatibility issues. This compatibility benefit also means that Advanced Authentication is a great choice to run on cloud platforms like Amazon Web Services. However, Advanced Authentication can be used across cloud, on-premise, and hybrid environments. It also allows you to adapt to your needs by supporting various operating systems such as Windows, OS X, and Linux. Advanced Authentication also offers professionals who are on the go the option of offline authentication – whether they are connected to the organisation’s systems or not. This ensures that employees are not blocked from getting important work done. To learn more about Advanced Authentication by Micro Focus, visit its dedicated webpage. This article was published in partnership with Micro Focus.