Designed with incredible improvements to all its essential device features, the Galaxy A Series has already captured the imagination of the world. Locally, it has grabbed the attention of those who are looking for flagship features at an affordable price. This includes immersive viewing experiences, longer lasting performance and ground-breaking cameras made for the way people are connecting today – sharing, capturing and consuming live. Effortlessly integrated into Samsung and Android’s renowned ecosystem, the devices move seamlessly from Google Play to WhatsApp to Instagram. Two of the devices, the A30 and the A50, showcase how well you can choose from the series based on your specific needs and get fantastic value either way. Because the A series was created with affordability in mind, your bank balance will appreciate the choice between the Galaxy A50 and A30. Both are powerful devices that can keep up with your most spontaneous moments. The Galaxy A50, is designed for those who want to capture and preserve life’s greatest moments. It’s sleek, slim design, empowers you to take and share photos effortlessly with its triple camera, designed to capture everything your creative eyes can see. You can see this in action in the A50’s Ultra Wide lens as well as 25MP main camera, which captures vivid images in bright daylight and adapts effortlessly to those big nights out as well. Combined with the Depth lens, the camera offers a Live Focus experience, enabling you to choose exactly what you want to highlight. Then there’s Scene Optimizer, which recognises and optimises 20 popular scenes most people photograph, to turn an everyday background into an image you’ll definitely want to share. And you can create unique profile pics, using Selfie Focus, to subtly blur background details. The A50 is a winner on Instagram. The Galaxy A30 is designed for those on-the-go, which is why its equipped with a powerful 4,000mAh, fast charging battery. It’s also a visual feast. The edge-to-edge 6.4” Super AMOLED Infinity-U display is ideal for watching videos, messaging, gaming and browsing – letting you live your life without missing a beat. Created for a more seamless mobile experience, the A30 includes advanced camera features such as a dual camera, including that amazing Ultra Wide-angle lens. And to keep your breath taking pics safe, it has simple, secure access with a Rear Fingerprint unlocking feature as well as intuitive Face Unlock. “Providing variety for all, the Galaxy A Series range offers value for first-time mobile users or value-seekers alike,” said Justin Hume, Director: Integrated Mobility at Samsung South Africa.” We focussed on the needs of the local market and have researched the unique preferences to bring the flagship experience to a broader audience. It offers premium features to South Africans who want to live the Galaxy life. The A30 and A50 are great examples of this.” Both devices are designed with pioneering Artificial Intelligence that enhances the possibilities within their incredible features. Which means, with either the Galaxy A50 or the A30 you can live your life in bold, new ways. The Galaxy A Series is absolute value any way you look at it. This article was published in partnership with Samsung.