Saphila 2019, ICT’s don’t-miss conference for the year, is taking place at Sun City on 10 and 11 June 2019. It is a biennial conference hosted by the African SAP User Group (AFSUG) in collaboration with SAP for SAP users to connect, create, and collaborate, through sharing knowledge about innovations, implementation and service delivery. “We bring three key players together – the companies that use SAP, the partners that implement and support the SAP systems, and then SAP itself – to engage in sessions and discuss various topics and success stories surrounding the ‘Intelligent Enterprise’ – which is also our theme for the conference in 2019,” said Reg Barry, board member of AFSUG and chairman of Saphila for 2019. The event is focused on sharing the real experiences that companies have had with projects where they utilised SAP products in order to help customers build their intelligent enterprises. “We ask these speakers in their sessions to share the good, and some of the not-so-good experiences, so that those who plan for future implementations can learn from these real-life examples,” said Barry. Saphila 2019 simplifies the Intelligent Enterprise and the vision behind it, just like the technology itself. End users can experience the benefits of the Intelligent Enterprise – the ability to operate with increased visibility, focus, and agility – without needing to understand how the technology itself works. At the event, delegates will get the opportunity to attend world-class keynote plenary presentations and other break-away sessions, brought to you by industry experts from all over the world, on the latest topics and trends affecting the SAP community. However, the streams and tracks in 2019 are a little different to what you might expect. There will be more round table discussions, customer testimonials, panel discussions and workshops, as well as a mini Tech-Ed stream. There will also be an exhibition space, which will give delegates access to new products and product demonstrations presented by SAP and SAP partners. Keynote formats are set to be a highlight this year, with talks delivered by Tom Raftery, Global VP, Futurist, and Innovation Evangelist from SAP; Andreas Heckmann – the Executive VP for Digital Business Services from SAP; as well as Isabell Petzelt – Global VP Customer Strategy and Innovation, who will be talking about “building your own vision of an Intelligent Enterprise”. The Senior VP for Strategy and Portfolio from SAP, Tom Janoshalmi, will also deliver a keynote, talking about realising the Intelligent Enterprise with integrated delivery frameworks. Further presentations will focus on artificial intelligence, machine learning, SaaS/ cloud support services, the SAP HANA cloud platform, networks, digital transformation, cloud contracting/ cloud contracts, the user experience, real case studies, lessons learnt, and more. The main sponsor for the event is SAP, while the Diamond sponsor is Deloitte. The Executive Suite sponsor is Accenture, and Platinum sponsors for the event are Britehouse and Huawei. Gold sponsors are EOH and T Systems and the catering sponsor is BCX. If you want to be attend Saphila 2019, you can register here. A registration fee applies, and discounts are only offered to members of AFSUG. For more information about packages available and the Saphila exhibition and conference, you can visit hellosaphila2019.com. This article was published in partnership with AFSUG.