Centrally located in Midrand, between Johannesburg and Pretoria, Gallagher Convention Centre is South Africa’s premier multi-purpose event venue. Here are 7 quick, important and interesting facts you need to know about Gallagher Convention Centre. Gallagher Convention Centre offers 27 multi-purpose venues for clients to choose from. The different sized venues can accommodate any type of event. The smaller venues cater for 2-200 guests, the medium venues cater for 250-700 guests, and the large venues accommodate up to 7,000 guests. At Gallagher, guests won’t get the parking blues, as they offer dedicated parking, and have the capacity to accommodate over 5,000 cars, with roaming security guards for all these areas. Gallagher Convention Centre has been an industry leader for more than 25 years and hosts more than 350 events annually, including the annual MyBroadband Conference and the MyBroadband Cloud, Hosting, and Security Conference to name a few. The team is devoted to service excellence. This commitment to service is what makes Gallagher such a popular venue to host events. Gallagher is home to some of Africa’s largest and most-attended exhibitions, and they host over 35 exhibitions annually.
During exhibitions Gallagher offers exhibition restaurants customised to the show’s visitors. Menus are specially designed to appeal to the client’s target market. The Gallagher team becomes an extension of the organising team and is invested in the success of events hosted in their venues. Gallagher is very conscientious in their approach to their environment and community. Food safety is paramount at Gallagher so after an event; if the surplus food is deemed to still be safe according to food safety standards, the food is donated to charities in the area.
To reduce waste Gallagher has a compactor and waste sorting area on the property for the purpose of recycling. Gallagher removed plastic straws from events and only offer the environmentally friendly alternative on request. Further to this, they endeavour to conserve power by means of solar power for the office park, energy saving bulbs, and a heating-cooling system that is kinder to the environment than air-conditioning. The biggest venue at Gallagher Convention centre is 6,600 square meters and can accommodate up to 7,000 guests. The smallest venue is Boardroom 1, at 39 square meters and can accommodate up to 20 guests. No event is too big or too small for Gallagher to accommodate. Gallagher is also an award-winning venue and won the AAXO Best Venue award for two years running in 2017 and 2018. Further to the above, Gallagher offers exceptional service through a dedicated and experienced team, which is committed to ensuring that the requirements of event organisers are met and that their expectations are exceeded. Gallagher understands how important it is to have the lights on while hosting an event, which is why they offer a full generator back-up. You can also reserve one of their boardrooms for your team to work from should you face a blackout at your own premises. The boardroom packages are priced at R1,200 (excl. Vat), while the full day package will set you back just R1,700 (excl. Vat). Both include a luxury, butler-serviced room, secure parking, Wi-fi, and other amenities. For more information, or to book your next conference, visit the Gallagher website. You can also contact them on +27 11 266 3000 or via email: gallagher@gallagher.co.za. This article was published in partnership with Gallagher.