In 2020 the Grand Prix is returning to the Netherlands after 35 years and one of the main sponsors of the Heineken Dutch Grand Prix is CM.com. After the Olympic Games and World Cup Football, Formula 1 is the largest international sporting event that a country can organise. A Formula 1 race is viewed by an estimated 450 million people worldwide, and according to experts, will generate approximately 35 million euros in advertising for the Netherlands. The race is also expected to generate some 80 to 100 million euros in extra turnover per weekend in sales for businesses in the vicinity of the circuit. CM.com provides a communication platform (cPaaS) in the areas of messaging, voice, payments and authentication, and enables global brands and enterprises to communicate with their customers in the most efficient way in order to drive conversions. In the 2020 Grand Prix, CM.com will deploy its mobile messaging and payments platform throughout the event process to optimise the fan experience. Using CM.com’s messaging platform, fans can order and receive their tickets via their mobile phone, eliminating the need to print tickets, and the organisers of the Heineken Dutch Grand Prix can connect and build personal relationships with their customers. Customers can also receive relevant notifications about the race in the run-up, during and after the event. And they will be able to order and pay for drinks, food and other items. This means that customers won’t have to carry cash or vouchers or wait in long queues. According to Jeroen van Glabbeek, CEO at CM.com, the ambitious initiators behind the Dutch Grand Prix were looking for the most modern way to sell tickets, and therefore approached CM.com. “Because the CM.com team consists of true sports enthusiasts who love technology, the collaboration soon grew into a true partnership,” said Glabbeek. “CM.com is ready to add the power of Conversational Commerce to the international GP-public experience. Through Mobile Messaging and Payments, fans will be able to optimise their event experience using their mobile phones,” concluded Glabbeek. CM.com is both addressable via API’s as well as Web apps, and their services are used all over the world by cloud service providers, telecom operators, and enterprises. For more information, visit the CM.com website. This article was published in partnership with CM.com.