Vox has informed clients that it will introduce changes to its fibre Internet packages that run on Frogfoot fibre. This is due to price increases from Frogfoot which will be effective from 1 June 2019. The company will introduce symmetric FTTH packages across its product range, and it will reduce the upload speeds of its asymmetric packages. Its 20/10 Mbps service will be changed to 20/2 Mbps, and subscribers with 100/50 Mbps packages will see their upload speeds decrease to 10Mbps. Vox said it decreased the upload speeds on Frogfoot fibre services rather than pass on a price increase to subscribers. “We believe [this] to be more palatable for a customer as opposed to an increase in their monthly billing,” said Vox. Users on 10/5 Mbps asymmetric fibre will be migrated to a new symmetric product with 10Mbps upload speeds – but at an increased price. “Frogfoot’s asymmetric range unfortunately did not have a 10Mbps product option, so Vox had no alternative but to apply an increase in billing for our 10/5 Mbps customer base, but with the benefit of this service being upgraded to the symmetric 10/10 Mbps product,” Vox said. Vox emphasised that it is only the Internet service provider which offers networking services on top of the infrastructure provided by companies like Frogfoot, Vumatel, and Openserve. The company noted this distinction because Vox owns Frogfoot, and the announcement was made from the perspective of the ISP business. “Price and product changes passed to the end customer are as a direct result from the changes and price increases as received from fibre network operators passed on to Vox.” “Frogfoot announced a price increase on their current symmetric product, and at the same time introduced a new range of asymmetric products,” said Vox. “What really excites us is the introduction of a symmetric product range, as well as some additional line speed options.” While Frogfoot has offered 200Mbps and 500Mbps line speed options for some time, Vox said that Frogfoot has launched new services in line with the latest packages. “It will be interesting to see what the uptake is on the 500Mbps service, as the 1Gbps product in the past has usually attracted the very heavy Internet users,” Vox said. The tables below summarise the changes Vox is making to its services on Frogfoot fibre. As part of the Pro bundle, Vox will conditionally waive the once-off fees. If the service is cancelled within 12 months, Vox will recover the full fees waived. The Pro bundles also include Vobi Uncapped voice calling and 1GB of mobile data.