FNB is launching a number of new eBucks offers and partnering with more companies to offer more discounts and earning opportunities for customers. The bank recently rolled out its new eBucks Shop interface for the FNB mobile banking app, allowing customers to spend their eBucks from within their mobile banking platform. FNB said customers can expect to get up to 40% off on exclusive deals available in the eBucks Shop and the mobile app also allows them to track their purchases and view their order history. The company has now announced a number of other new changes to the eBucks system, most of which expand the current offerings available to customers. These eBucks changes will take effect from 1 July 2019, and some are already being implemented. FNB said that from 1 July, customers will be able to book local and international flights through various partners directly on the FNB app and earn up to 40% off their flights. eBucks has also partnered with Computicket, allowing customers to spend their eBucks on tickets to events and festivals. “You can now use your FNB Fusion, Credit and Cheque card, eBucks or a combination of both to pay for tickets and entertainment under the ‘eBucks Tickets’ tab on eBucks.com,” the company said. FNB has partnered with Uber Eats, KFC, Kuaui, and Intercape to offer a range of new incentives and discounts across these products. eBucks members can also earn additional SLOW Lounge visits by booking flights through the eBucks travel platform – with Private Wealth customers receiving up to eight additional lounge visits. Below are some of the new rule changes and offers available to FNB eBucks members. FNB Easy customers who spend R1 or more on their Easy account at Usave, Checkers, or Shoprite in a month can earn one of the following: To qualify for these rewards, FNB Easy customers must have a minimum monthly deposit of R2,000 and have registered for cellphone banking. FNB Gold customers can now take advantage of the following new eBucks offers: eBucks members can continue to earn up to R4 per litre every month for fuel purchases at Engen, and can also earn an additional up to R4 per litre back by meeting the following criteria: FNB Gold account holders can also earn up to 40% back in eBucks on their life insurance. To qualify for these rewards, FNB Gold customers must have a minimum monthly deposit of R5,000 and login to any digital FNB channel at least once a month. FNB Premier, Private Clients, and Private Wealth account holders can take advantage of the following eBucks rewards: The qualifying requirements for earning an extra R4 per litre from Engen fuel purchases are listed in the Gold Account section.