Samsung has been a pioneer in TV design for 50 years. Over that time, Samsung has researched what people love most about TV – the way it brings friends and families together and the many details that amplifies the viewing experience. This knowledge has led to innovation that has transformed how people watch TV and is one of the reasons it has been global number 1 for the 13 years. The 2019 QLED line-up builds on this legacy in a big way. “Pictures that are as breath-taking as they are ground-breaking” is how Forbes Magazine described the Samsung QLED TV it reviewed in February this year. This is a sentiment that has been echoed by reviewers around the world. TechRader addressed the QLED versus OLED debate by citing the Samsung 65Q90R as ‘’Capable of competing with and often surpassing even the best OLED’s.” Powered by Samsung’s patented Quantum Processor, the 2019 QLED TV line-up features more screen size options, stunning picture quality enhancements, dazzling colours from every angle, exciting new design elements and intuitive smart TV upgrades. QLED TVs use quantum dots to enhance performance, delivering better brightness and a wider colour spectrum.  That’s because the dots act like a filter when applied on top of an LED backlight. This produces a light purer than an LED can provide. Beyond TV viewing, QLED is also the best for gaming as it has the fastest refresh times, which could be the difference between victory and losing your last lifeline. QLED TVs are also far brighter than current OLED TVs. For example, the 65” Q90 can push out a peak measured light output (on a white HDR window filling 10% of the screen) of 2050 nits. That’s seriously impressive. And the innovation doesn’t stop at just the quality of the overall picture but on its impressive performance in another crucial area that requires everyone’s attention. Since QLED TVs don’t use organic elements, they are essentially immune to screen burn-in. This is a display issue in which certain facets of an image shown on a TV screen, such as a channel logo are either not shown properly, or fragments of that image remain on the screen. It then appears longer, as though it is embedded onto the display. This has been cited as one of the crucial flaws of OLED TV display technology. In fact, a quick search for “OLED Burn-in” on YouTube shows the high volume of criticism from those who have experienced the issue first-hand, as well as a number of burn-in tests, which compare Samsung’s QLED TV and OLED TV to demonstrate how the two displays differ on this very critical concern. Clearly, Samsung has mastered an area that can impact viewing in a big way. Samsung has declared 2019 the year of the ‘ultra-high definition 8K era’. With Samsung 8K QLED every scene is amazingly vivid and real. It’s like 3D without the glasses. With more colours than the human eye can see, infinite details and optimised audio you see, feel and hear as if the scene has come to life in front of you. Of course, because 8K is still new technology, Samsung’s intelligent Quantum Processor 8K can convert what you watching, depending on the source content, into an enhanced version with improved details and sharpened definition. This means more crystal clear and precise images with reduced noise and sharpened definition. It’s like an instant upgrade of everything you’ve seen before. Together with 8K resolution, Samsung’s HDR technology delivers maximum brightness to the scenes’ settings and conditions in the room you’re watching in. And with fewer visible pixels, you enjoy the feeling of pure immersion—even when you’re closer to the TV. This means everyone in the room has the same incredible experience at the same time. As announced at CES 2019, Samsung has taken the user experience to the next level by offering iTunes Movies and TV Shows and Apple AirPlay 2 support on 2019 Samsung Smart TV models. In an industry first, a new iTunes Movies and TV Shows app is available on the QLED range. It works seamlessly with Samsung’s Smart TV Services, the new Voice Command and Search, to create a consistent experience across Samsung’s platform. With AirPlay 2 support, Samsung customers will be able to effortlessly play videos, photos, music, podcasts and more from Apple devices directly to Samsung Smart TVs, including QLED 4K and 8K TVs as well as other Samsung UHD and HD models. Additionally, it works with Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant. Our 2019 QLED line is designed for users who want the best combination of picture quality, smart TV capabilities and design. This year’s line-up represents our largest screen size offering ever. It brings together innovative feature enhancements and exciting content and service partnerships to deliver a truly ground-breaking viewing experience and unprecedented value. This article was published in partnership with Samsung.