I suppose you expect me to write things like Switchcom is a dynamic and innovative ICT company founded in 2015 with the aim of bringing South Africa leading wired and wireless solutions, and more. Switchcom Distribution’s extensive product range includes wireless, fibre, surveillance, network cabling, solar solutions, networking equipment, installation materials, VoIP equipment, and more. In fact, it would be deserving to say they sell service itself, as evidenced from the way they: It’s so refreshing to meet with a company who is clearly keen to work hard for their customers, to deliver maximum value in the relationship.  Their ethos is so simple in many ways, yet unmistakably wise, they aim to deliver the most they can to clients, not the least. In the Switchcom spirit of constantly striving for change, they have recently acquired the distributorship for the entire African continent of the specialist antenna brand, ALGcom. If you’re struggling with interference on links or just need more throughput and stability, you need to look at the ALGcom range of specialised antennas. Since 2003, ALGcom designs, manufactures and is dedicated to the innovation, research and development of antennas that operate in 1.5GHz, 2.2GHz, 2.5GHz, 3.7GHz, 4.8GHz, 5.8GHz, 6.1GHz, 6.8GHz, 7.8GHz and 11GHz. The Shielded Antennas and Ultra High-Performance Shielded Antennas eliminate interference in high noise floor environments. These antennas come equipped with a 3-year warranty and feature a 100% aluminium structure. The ALGcom range does not only include antennas but also horn sectors, armored boxes and AC/DC UPSs all designed to fit every installation’s unique requirements. The range offers exceptionally low interference, higher vertical and horizontal coverage, stable connection with maximum throughput over short & long distances. The whole range is compatible with radios from leading manufacturers such as Ubiquiti, MikroTik, Cambium Networks, Mimosa, LigoWave, Randwin, Infinet and more. Do yourself and your business the favour of contacting Switchcom Distribution today, visit the Switchcom website. This article was published in partnership with Switchcom.