In recent years there has been an upsurge in ransomware attacks all over the world. So far, over 200,000 computers in 150 countries have been affected, with victims in all industries. In such an attack, the malware prevents users from accessing their system and data and demands payment for them to regain access. This poses many risks to a business in terms of reputation, costs, and fines as a result of non-compliance to GDPR or POPI legislation. POPI refers to South Africa’s Protection of Personal Information Act which seeks to regulate the processing of personal information and protect individuals’ rights regarding the privacy of their data. It implies a moral obligation of the business to take responsibility for the information they hold, and to use it judiciously. What many South African businesses don’t realise is that just as unsecure firewalls and password protocols affect compliance with this legislation, so too do unsecure printers. Shockingly, more than half of South Africans say that they are unaware of how print security affects POPI compliance. This is according to a print security survey conducted by MyBroadband in partnership with Nashua. While many are unaware of the effects of print security on compliance, over 70% of South Africans in the corporate space showed concern that their information may fall into the wrong hands via print jobs – and they have good reason. The survey also showed that 72,5% of South Africans feel that the printers in their workplace aren’t fully secure. If an intruder cannot enter through a computer, they may try their luck through your printing fleet. The reason they would do so is because nearly all digital copiers now come standard with hard drives that contain sensitive information, and without any security or protection, criminals can easily gain access into such information. They will then use the information as bait for a ransom, and suddenly the business involved will have to face charges for non-compliance with legislation. The charges include up to ten years in jail or R10 million in fines. It’s simply not worth the risk. To comply with the POPI bill, your printing fleet must have the necessary security measures that will prevent data theft or loss through an attack. Nashua can help you align your fleet with POPI. Their multi-functional printers come with state-of-the-art security measures preventing ransomware attacks for occurring, and they offer document management solutions that specialise in data storage for any size organisation, in compliance with the latest regulations. A digital document management system provides a new level of compliance with collecting, processing, storing and sharing other entities’ information. This is vital for compliance with the POPI Act. For more information visit www.nashua.co.za. This article was published in partnership with Nashua.