There is no doubt about it. We live in a country with a natural landscape that’s awe-inspiring, from Table Mountain to The Drakensburg. This is one of the reasons why the Galaxy S10+, S10 and S10e, has been warmly welcomed by amateur and professional photographers everywhere. The Galaxy S10 gives South Africans the opportunity to capture our landmarks, cultures and people through a lens that’s pixel perfect. In fact, it does it through multiple lenses. Essentially, it has a full kit of lenses built right in. The multi-camera puts pro-grade cameras in your pocket to make your photos, selfies and videos effortlessly epic and instantly shareable. There is no shortage of fantastic features on the S10 including: Ultra-Wide Lens: This lens mimics the human eye by giving you a 123-degree field of view. What does this mean? Simply put, whatever you see is what you’ll capture. From impressive landscape shots, big panoramas and trying to fit the entire extended family into a photo, the Ultra-Wide Lens is like an extension of your own eyes. Super Steady & High-Quality Video Recording:  Whether you’re dancing in the middle of an amazing concert in Jozi or trying to record every detail of a bumpy bike ride through the Winelands, Super Steady allows you to capture the moment, effortlessly. Also helpful is the fact that both the front and rear cameras can shoot in UHD quality. AI Camera: The future has arrived and it lives in the S10’s camera. With its neural processing unit, you can get pro-grade shots worth sharing without having to manually select any advanced camera settings. Its Scene Optimizer recognises the environment you’re shooting to enhance every detail and through Shot Suggestion you can frame your photos better than ever, day or night. The S10 also takes advantage of its enhanced performance and upgraded neural processing capability through its Scene Optimizer capability. It can detect an impressive 30 different types of scenes and customises image processing to match. So whether you’re taking a picture of a baby, a gourmet braai or a KZN sunrise the S10 has you covered. So the next time you do an Android security update you’ll feel even better, knowing you’re securing and enhancing some of your pictures ever. These are just some of the reasons Consumer Reports* calls the S10 “The Best Smartphone Ever” and why it was graded “Best Rated Selfie Camera” by DxOMark. Since its launch ten years ago, the Galaxy S series has stood for premium innovation. And the Galaxy S10 has built on that incredible legacy with breakthrough display, camera and performance innovations. It’s a smartphone with a screen made for cinema, ultrasonic fingerprint security and even wireless power-share, so you can share your impressive power with your devices as well as your friends. Samsung has clearly taken smartphone photography to a whole new level. * Smartphone rating study released by Consumer Reports (USA). This article was published in partnership with Samsung.