Discovery Vitality members recently reported a number of problems with the company’s cashback rewards system. Members who contacted MyBroadband complained that they were no longer earning cash back on their spend at Pick n Pay or Woolworths. They also complained that they were not earning cashback rewards for meeting their weekly goals with Virgin Active. Customers are supposed to be able to earn up to 100% of their gym subscription payments back in rewards, but Discovery has ostensibly encountered issues providing some of the cash rewards in a timeous manner. One Discovery Vitality member told MyBroadband that they were unable to find the online statements for their cashback rewards on the company’s website. When they contacted Discovery’s support staff, they said they were told that there had been a delay in processing cashback rewards. Members were reportedly told by Discovery support that there is a problem with the processing of certain rewards. Discovery reportedly stated that there has been a delay in the processing of cashback for the following benefits: This means that some Discovery members may have been unable to claim cash back promptly for purchases at Clicks and Dis-Chem, as well as the purchase of running shoes. Additionally, some members may have experienced issues claiming cash back on their gym membership at Virgin Active or Planet Fitness until this issue is resolved. “Our systems team have however advised that all cashbacks due will payout shortly once a fix has been applied,” the company told customers. Vitality COO Joe Van Niekerk told MyBroadband that cashback payments for a small number of Vitality users were delayed due to a system migration. “A minority of cashback payments were delayed during a system crossover, which began earlier this year, but these have been resolved,” he said. “If there are queries on cash backs, members are welcome to contact Vitality on 0860 99 88 77 and we will gladly share their cashback information and deal with any residual problems.” He stated that all cashback amounts were recorded, and Discovery was working on a new statement system which will roll out next month. “Members can be assured that their cashback amounts are recorded and available as per their SMS notifications, however, if there are intermittent delays they can query by calling us on 0860 99 88 77.” “We are also currently implementing a new, feature-rich cashback statement which we will start rolling out from November,” Van Niekerk added. “We thank Vitality members for their patience while we work on enhancing their experience.”