eXmile Technologies – which purchased the going concern of local Wi-Fi hotspot provider, WirelessG, during 2017 and traded under the brand and name “GConnect” thereafter – has now unveiled its new brand, their approach to the Wi-Fi hotspot industry model, and their shift towards an extended range of IT managed service solutions. With the launch of the new brand, eXmile Technologies explains that their current business strategy is focused on a business-to-business model. They have also increased their services bouquet to not only provide Wi-Fi to the hospitality, food and beverage and “guest Wi-Fi” industry in South Africa, but also increasing the entire business value proposition with supplementary services such as: IT managed services, Wi-Fi analytics, customer campaigning and back office internet services. Their national Wi-Fi Hotspot footprint currently consists of approximately 1,000 Wi-Fi hotspots with over 2 million monthly sessions, generated by 300,000 unique users, pushing around 130TB of data. eXmile’s Chief Technical Officer, Henk Badenhorst, says “We have been in the Wi-Fi business since 2003 and have seen it mature from a new technology to a complementary technology, and now an essential technology. This evolution forced us to think differently about Wi-Fi and how we present this to our clients, who also wanted more than just Wi-Fi. We have worked really hard to come up with some great new solutions. Providing a reliable Wi-Fi network to our clients remains one of our top priorities and we will continue to grow our network.“ They have introduced a range of technology-focused solutions such as IT managed services for SMEs outside of the Wi-Fi hotspot realm, white-label platform solutions, back office internet services, network infrastructure services, SD-WAN solutions and call centre communication services. “It is important for us to build long-lasting partnerships with our clients. Every client has different business needs and we will do everything in our power to meet those needs”, says Braam Linde, Chief Sales Officer at eXmile, responsible for new business development. eXmile Technologies CEO, Jan Van Der Nest says: “Our internal company culture and values are critical to the success of our business strategy. Even though teamwork is important, we believe that transparency in all our business dealings, internal and external, makes us stand out, and because we are curious in nature, we also ensure that “innovation” gets top priority on all levels inside our company so that our clients can ultimately benefit.” Van Der Nest further adds: “Our new brand symbolises the fact that we put our clients’ needs first with the “greater-as” sign in the “X” being prominent in the foreground and the “left”-arrow in the background meaning we look back on a regular basis in order to innovate our existing offerings and to challenge the status quo to become a better version of ourselves, while we remain humble. We are proud to reveal our new brand, vision and business solutions strategy.” To find out more contact eXmile Technologies: This article was published in partnership with eXmile.