The world is experiencing an accelerated increase in technological advancements thanks to the rise of the fourth Industrial revolution, forcing businesses across the globe to innovate so that they stay relevant. In order to recognise customers for their efforts to achieve this and their excellence in digital innovation, BCX has launched its inaugural 2019 Digital Innovation Awards, for which entries are open. The BCX Digital Innovation Awards mainly seeks to recognise South African organisations who have taken up the flag to transform their businesses through technological advancements and digital transformation. It also seeks to reward businesses who have contributed to the economic well-being of South Africa through either incremental or disruptive innovation. Incremental innovation refers to those who focus on continually improving existing products or services by reducing costs and improving or adding additional features in a bid to increase the product’s level of competition. It utilises existing technology to increase value to the customer within the existing market through enhancements or simplifications. Disruptive innovation refers to those creating a new market for a new branch of customers. It makes use of new technologies and new or existing business models. Stand-out businesses that have significantly contributed to or in each of the above-mentioned areas will stand a chance to win great prizes. The awards and prizes are categorised according to company size and years of operation, as detailed below. This category is for South African SMEs who have been in operation for more than 1 year and who are currently employing more than 5 people and earning less than R50 million in revenue. The winner of this category will win 2 ‘Business in a Box’ packs to the value of R40,000, media coverage on Business Day TV and could potentially win the opportunity to partner with BCX. This category is for large South African enterprises with an existing employee base of 200 or more. The winner of this category will receive a digital transformation/ co-creation programme, together with media coverage on Business Day TV. To enter your business for the inaugural BCX Digital Innovation Awards today, visit the BCX website. Entries close on 20 October. Judging will take place on the 28 and 29 October at the BCX Digital Warriors Challenge. Winners will being announced on  7 November at the Top 100 Companies gala dinner hosted by Sunday Times. For more information or enquiries, please email digitalinnovationAward@bcx.co.za. This article was published in partnership with BCX.