By Marilyn Shamba, Microsoft Product Manager at Rectron. The end is nigh for Windows 7 and this is the time for businesses to prepare for it.  Most businesses are not equipped for the end of support for Windows 7 on January 14, 2020. The fact that Windows 7 will no longer be supported by Microsoft means there are many users who need to start thinking about finally moving on from their favourite operating system. Technical support and automatic updates that help protect your PC will no longer be made available for the product. What does it mean for your business? It is common for hackers to wait until after that date to find ways to exploit vulnerable systems knowing when end of life hits. Armed with the knowledge that Microsoft isn’t going to support the operating system and there are still plenty of people using it, this is the best time for hackers to attack. Keeping in mind that liability for attacks lies squarely with device owners who do not comply with security risk requirements, it’s a huge price to pay and a potential risk to your business operations. You can continue to use Windows 7, but after support has ended, your PC will become more vulnerable to security risks and viruses. Windows will continue to start and run, but you will no longer receive software updates, including security updates, from Microsoft. Remember that the continuous use of an unpatched Windows 7 offers criminals and hackers the time needed to perfect their malware in order to penetrate the operating system. Upgrading to Windows 10 means that your business information, customer data, employee’s digital identities as well as your reputation and your brand are all protected. To take advantage of the latest hardware capabilities, we recommend upgrading to a new PC with Windows 10. Alternatively, Windows 7 PCs can be upgraded by purchasing and installing an FPP or ESD version of the software To learn more about how to upgrade your system to Windows 10, visit https://www.rectron.co.za/windows-7-end/ or email Microsoft Product Manager at Rectron Marilyn Shamba: esd@rectron.co.za This article was published in partnership with Rectron.