MultiChoice has informed its DStv Select subscribers that it will discontinue this service on 31 October 2019 and move them to DStv Family. The company stopped selling DStv Select packages in April 2013 and replaced it with a DStv Family. Existing DStv Select subscribers were, however, allowed to remain on this package as long as they did not become inactive for more than 3 months. Many DStv Select subscribers opted to stay on the package instead of moving to DStv Family for a simple reason – it included access to KykNET. The company is now discontinuing the legacy DStv Select package and is automatically migrating these subscribers to DStv Family. “Your favourite channels are however still available on our various other packages,” the company told DStv Select subscribers. Many DStv Select subscribers highlighted that they now have to move to either DStv Compact Plus or DStv Premium to get KykNET, which are far more expensive. DStv Select costs R265 per month, while DStv Compact Plus costs R519 per month and DStv Premium R809 per month. “I only have the Select package for KykNET. I am not willing to pay double for Compact Plus just to have KykNET,” said one subscriber. “I feel exactly the same as other loyal DStv subscribers who have been on the DStv Select package for years and are now forced to pay double,” said another. MultiChoice was asked for comment regarding the decision, but the company did not respond by the time of publication. DStv will also cut three popular channels from its network at the end of October – History, Crime + Investigation, and Lifetime. These three channels have been available to DStv Premium and DStv Compact Plus subscribers for years. The contract term for these channels, which are all provided by the American broadcasting company A&E Networks, ends on 1 November 2019. MultiChoice’s senior manager for corporate communications, Benedict Maaga told MyBroadband the decision formed part of a plan to refresh the DStv line-up. He said the fact that the contract term for these three channels came to an end gave MultiChoice an opportunity to evaluate the value it offers subscribers.