ESEA, a leading global third-party service for Counter-Strike: Global Offensive, has recently relaunched in South Africa. This relaunch will see ESEA double the Rank Leaderboard prizes in South Africa allowing players to battle for their share of over 800 USD in prizes of CS:GO skins and ESEA Points in a monthly leader board. Players can queue up for ranked matches any time of the day, either in a team or individually. ESEA will continue to run their prestigious 5v5 league in South Africa where teams compete for two months before advancing to playoffs. Local ISP, RSAWEB, has partnered with them to provide the backbone for their cloud infrastructure in Cape Town and Johannesburg. This will ensure that ESEA can keep up with the influx of South African gamers eager to climb the leaderboards. The increased cloud infrastructure provided by RSAWEB will ensure that players have a world-class experience while they compete for thousands of dollars in prizes on local, high-quality servers run by RSAWEB. To make the most of these upgrades and get smooth, lag-free gaming you’re going to need connectivity that can keep up—you’re going to need fibre. With RSAWEB you can get fast, uncapped fibre from only R395 a month. RSAWEB fibre comes with a whole host of freebies like a free premium router, free installation and/or connection, free LTE SIM card with 1GB of data each month, free call out to their home (1 hour onsite support or a free Wi-Fi assessment), up to R2,500 off when your referrals get connected and more. You can check your address for coverage here. ESEA hosts servers around the globe for competitors of all skill levels to compete, practice, improve and qualify for some of the biggest tournaments competing for huge amounts of money. With RSAWEB on board, local players should see improved server speeds, less lag and a better overall experience. With these servers, ESEA helps gamers get the most out of CS:GO no matter what their goals are. Whether they’re top tier players competing for thousands of dollars and working towards the ESL Pro League or playing recreationally and simply looking to elevate their play with advanced statistics or heatmaps. Players will be competing on the leaderboard for the following: The 6th-10th place on each leaderboard will also receive 500 ESEA points which they can put toward more .clips, statistic resets, supporting their favourite Clubs, etc. The following months will feature similar prize pools, although the CS:GO skins may vary month to month. Signing up for ESEA is incredibly easy. Players sign up online at ESEA, purchase their membership via Steam (for only R45 a month) and download the ESEA client, they’ll then be able to queue up for matches and start climbing the leaderboards. This article was published in partnership with RSAWEB.