The latest version of ESET NOD32 Antivirus, ESET Internet Security and ESET Smart Security Premium that offers various scope of multiplatform integration, advanced machine learning, an improved password manager and secure data encryption has been released. The new upgrades reflect the global need for home users to be better protected in an increasingly connected world. As given in one report, we can expect to see an increase of 28.5 billion more devices and connections worldwide by 2022. “The surging numbers of internet-connected devices present a tantalising opportunity for hackers to exploit. Home users are at risk of falling victim to cybercrime without security products that can consistently confront hackers’ attempts at every level. That’s what ESET aims to do with this new edition of our home security products – to give home users the peace of mind knowing that over 30 years of security intelligence is at work actively protecting their devices against the hackers of today,” says Carey van Vlaanderen, CEO at ESET South Africa. In addition to protection, ESET’s home solutions have also demonstrated results in terms of low system footprint and high performance. AV-Comparatives has awarded ESET Internet Security with five consecutive Advanced+ awards for high performance since May 2017. The latest edition of ESET’s offer for home users includes a host of new features and improvements: ESET Internet Security recently received MRG Effitas’ Online Banking/Browser Security Certification in 2019, which is a great accomplishment because MRG Effitas is “at the forefront of online banking testing” and “the only testing house in the world whose tests map 100% against in-the-wild threats.” CHM can also discover all devices connected to your home Wi-Fi network – now with improved device recognition including IP address, MAC address, device name, model, and vendor details. *Only available for ESET Smart Security Premium **Only available for Windows version of ESET Password Manager ***Available for Windows and macOS versions of ESET Password Manager This article was published in partnership with ESET.