MTN has opened up its wholesale fixed-LTE product to local ISPs other than Supersonic, which is owned by MTN and was the first ISP to offer this product. With Cell C’s fixed-LTE service shutting down, many local ISPs will rely on MTN’s network to deliver fixed wireless broadband products instead. Webafrica’s Greg Wright previously noted that they were working with a “different network” to try and accommodate fixed-LTE customers, and the availability of MTN’s fixed-LTE service to ISPs has now been confirmed by Axxess and MTN. Supersonic CEO Calvin Collet also told MyBroadband at the launch of its fixed-LTE deals that MTN’s wholesale LTE products would be available to other South African ISPs. It is unclear whether these new packages will be available through all ISPs which previously offered Cell C fixed-LTE products, or how their pricing will compare to Supersonic’s MTN fixed-LTE packages. After it was asked about an email notifying Cell C fixed-LTE customers that they would be migrated to MTN, Axxess told MyBroadband that it would launch new MTN fixed-LTE services soon. “We can confirm that we will be offering some new and exciting Fixed LTE services via MTN soon,” the ISP told MyBroadband. “Axxess will be launching new MTN Fixed LTE services to the public next week.” The company added that the new MTN fixed-LTE products would be made up of different sizes and prices to the old Cell C offerings. In addition to launching new MTN fixed-LTE products, Axxess is also providing Cell C fixed-LTE customers who are on 100GB and 200GB packages with replacement MTN products. These will include the same data allotments as the Cell C packages and would be priced identically – the only difference will be the network the Internet service runs on. MyBroadband contacted MTN for comment, who confirmed that fixed-LTE products would be available through local ISPs other than Supersonic. “MTN’s wholesale division will offer wholesale Fixed LTE capability through ISP’s and other partners,” said MTN SA executive for corporate affairs Jacqui O’Sullivan. “As the wholesale provider, MTN cannot and will not dictate the package and pricing options that the various partners will offer into the market and can therefore not comment on the pricing of our partners.” “Negotiations with various partners is ongoing, with some already finalised,” O’Sullivan added. This means that MTN fixed-LTE packages may be available from a number of local ISPs in the near future, with Axxess being one of the first to offer the new deals.