Last year, DStv announced the first channel which it would broadcast on high-band frequencies, enabled through a new satellite the company launched in 2016. The broadcast of channels over high-band frequencies allows DStv to offer more content to customers, but it could also result in some viewers being unable to watch certain channels. Certain older decoders and installations are unable to access content on high-band frequencies, which could prove problematic as new channels come online. In October last year, MultiChoice said that while new DStv channels will not necessarily be launched on high-band frequencies, this is where they will most likely be broadcast. “New channels and services still to be launched will most likely be broadcast from high-band frequencies,” the company said. This has proven true, as there are now multiple channels being broadcast over high-band frequencies, with more expected to follow. MultiChoice told MyBroadband that its high-band frequency can be used for around 12 channels. Channels which are currently broadcast over high-band frequencies include the following: These are mostly international news and current affairs channels which are not directly available to subscribers in South African, but it is important to note that the content being broadcast over high-band frequencies is subject to change. MultiChoice told MyBroadband that the number of old, incompatible decoders constitutes a very small portion of its subscriber base. “The only decoders that can’t handle high band are the old SD PVR (Dual View) decoders; there are less than 0.05% of these currently active,” the company said. “We have great replacement offers available on these decoders, customers can visit our website to see what is suitable for their viewing needs.” The company confirmed to MyBroadband that these decoders would be unable to receive high-band frequency broadcasts and would subsequently be unable to view these channels, nor any channels broadcast over high-band frequencies in the future. MultiChoice previously provided MyBroadband with a list of DStv decoders that are incompatible with high-band frequency broadcasts. These include the DStv SD PVR decoder in addition to other PVR and Explora decoders in certain configurations. “There are also a handful of installation types that cannot receive signals on both high and low-band frequencies,” MultiChoice said. The models listed below need to be updated to receive both low and high-band frequencies: There are hardly any DStv customers who still have these installation types, and MultiChoice said it offered customers a variety of attractive upgrade deals for those who are still using outdated hardware.