Cloud connector apps help you create workflows that connect your multifunction printer (MFP) to your chosen cloud storage. Cloud storage lets you scan in and share documents making it easier to collaborate. Printing documents stored in the cloud directly to the ConnectKey Technology-enabled multifunction printer makes it easier for your mobile workforce to access the documents they need. All of this is done with just a few touches directly at the MFP. Watch this video for a quick demonstration of just how easy it is to print from or scan to your cloud storage of choice.  Is your cloud storage one for which we have an app?  Look at the list of current cloud storage apps below copied directly from the Workflow apps website. The links included with each description takes you to the app in the App Gallery where you will find additional information about the app.  The additional information includes sample screen shots, trial versions, system requirements, languages available as well as supporting documentation and more. Amazon WorkDocs: Stay organised by routing documents to the appropriate folders and transform paper into digitally accessible files with direct connection to the Amazon WorkDocs App from your MFP. Learn more about Amazon WorkDocs App › Connect 2.0 for Box: Easily print from or scan to an individual or shared Box account. As more organisations and workers are leveraging the convenience of cloud storage services, this app makes it easier to digitise documents, collaborate and work on the go. See Connect 2.0 for Box app in gallery › Connect 2.0 for Dropbox: Easily print from or scan to an individual or shared Dropbox account. See Connect 2.0 for Dropbox app in gallery › Connect 2.0 for Google Drive: Easily print from or scan to an individual or shared Google Drive account. This workflow app makes it easier to digitise documents, collaborate and work on the go. See Connect 2.0 for Google Drive app in gallery › Connect 2.0 for Microsoft OneDrive®: Easily print from or scan to an individual or shared Microsoft OneDrive® account. See Connect 2.0 for Microsoft OneDrive app in gallery › Connect 2.0 for Microsoft Office 365: Easily print from or scan to an individual or shared Microsoft Office 365 account. See Connect 2.0 for Microsoft Office 365 app in gallery › Connect App for Evernote: Securely scan and print directly to and from your Evernote account. Learn more about Connect for Evernote › The sky’s the limit as they say. With the connect apps take advantage of the cloud(s) and the flexibility it provides to your business. This article was published in partnership with Altron Bytes Document Solutions.