Discovery has announced a partnership with Apple and iStore to help provide Vitality members with a new iPhone 11 or iPhone 11 Pro, funded through the company’s Vitality Active Rewards programme. To activate this benefit, clients must join the Discovery Bank platform. “We brought you Apple Watch to help you exercise more and we saw a 34% increase in physical activity, so we wanted to take it further to bring you iPhone and encourage positive behaviour change in other aspects of your life like safer driving and healthier banking too,” said Discovery Chief Executive Adrian Gore. To earn the iPhone 11 or iPhone 11 Pro, clients will need to achieve all of their Vitality Active Rewards goals over 24 months. “It is really the most affordable way to get an iPhone in SA and the process is so simple,” said Discovery Bank CEO Barry Hore. The official iPhone benefit page on the Discovery website states that “you can fund an iPhone in full provided if you have the correct Discovery Bank product and achieve all your weekly Vitality Active Rewards exercise, drive and money goals”. The iPhone you are able to fund through Discovery Vitality Rewards depends on your Discovery Bank product, detailed below: Customers must have one of the Discovery Bank accounts listed above to qualify for Vitality Active Rewards, and only the primary account holder will qualify for the iPhone benefit. “To enjoy cashback, you must meet your monthly spend requirement of at least R5,000 based on your Discovery Bank product regardless of the number of Vitality Active Rewards goals you have achieved,” Discovery said. “If you do not meet any of your weekly Vitality Active Rewards goals, you will forfeit your monthly cashback and will have to pay the full instalment amount for the iPhone.” “You will then be liable to Discovery Bank for a monthly instalment amount due on your qualifying Discovery Card.” Customers must complete all three Vitality programmes to fully fund their iPhone, although they can still partially fund the device through one or two of the programmes. More details about the iPhone 11 incentive are available on the Discovery website.