A recent survey conducted by Gabsten Technologies highlights how important data is to South African businesses. 63% of respondents said their business could not function without data, while a further 14% stated that they could only survive one day without their data. “In a digital age, it is almost impossible to conduct business as usual without access to data. For the respondents that believe they could function without their data, this is unfortunately not the case,” said Hemant Harie, Managing Director at Gabsten Technologies. Further to this, the amount of data being used and stored worldwide is increasing at an exponential rate with no signs of slowing down, which is why organisations need to look towards data management to guarantee that their data is secure. At the end of 2018, the IDC predicted the world’s data totalled 33 zettabytes, and that by 2025 this figure will increase to 175 zettabytes – translating to a 61% compounded annual growth rate. These figures prove it is of critical importance for businesses to have a powerful and scalable data management system in place to ensure they can deal with the continued increase in available data. South Africa’s most experienced Commvault Authorised Support Partner, which currently serves as the only such partner in the country, is Gabsten Technologies. Established in October 2009, Gabsten Technologies offers a comprehensive set of data management services that ensure the safety and accessibility of business’s data at all times. The company is dominant in this field thanks to a long-standing partnership with Commvault – a leading international data management software provider – as well as its unmatched experience implementing rigorous and powerful data management solutions for South African businesses. Gabsten Technologies has been operating within the Commvault ecosystem in South Africa for the past 10 years and is experienced and qualified to provide South African businesses with unparalleled data management services and offerings. Gabsten Technologies offers an array of services that can assist with every data management need a business may have, including: All of these services are critical in any business and combine to form a comprehensive data management solution. Additionally, Gabsten’s experienced team of data management specialists walks you through the entire formulation and implementation of your data management solution – confirming that you understand what is being implemented and how it will benefit your business. Experts will assess your current data environment and infrastructure to determine the best possible solution for your business. This assessment and solution proposal addresses the following key business data protection points: The consultants will ensure that your needs and desires are met, while simultaneously ensuring you have ample room to scale your business’s data solution in the future. Gabsten’s experience in the data management sector, combined with their Authorised Support Partners status with Commvault, allows them to safeguard your data  removes the added pressure of you securing your data, allowing you to focus on what your business does best. “18% of businesses do not have any backup strategy and only 60% of those who do include Disaster Recovery and high availability,” said Harie. However, every minute delayed in implementing a superior data management system for your business leaves your business at risk of succumbing to disaster. Contact Gabsten Technologies today to learn more about how they can help your business to secure its data. This article was published in partnership with Gabsten Technologies.