From lavish weddings and secret romances to high-fashion runway shows and high-stakes boardroom drama, The Bold and the Beautiful has been a source of entertainment for South Africans for almost three decades. There is barely a home in the country where generations of parents, grandparents and their families didn’t spend years watching the show together. Since it went off air in March earlier this year, a gap has been left in the hearts of many in the country. But that gap can now be filled once again as the world-renowned soapie will be back on South African screens, with Vodacom having secured the rights to stream the beloved television show on its video on demand platform, Video Play. Now South African consumers will be able to stream the soap opera on their mobile devices, such as their smartphones, tablets, and laptops. “We are extremely excited to be bringing back one of South Africa’s favourite international soap operas on our video on demand service, Video Play, along with the characters we’ve all grown to love, or love to hate,” says Vodacom Group Digital and Fixed Services Officer, Zunaid Mahomed. “This move forms part of our ongoing commitment to providing access to the content our customers want, in a format that allows them to watch it whenever they want and wherever they are.” Video Play subscribers will be able catch up where the SABC left off with brand new never before seen episodes of season 31 as well as binge on 50 catch up episodes. New episodes will be released daily starting from 9 October 2019. Consumers don’t need to subscribe to any packages, as content is FREE. Additionally, the synopsis of each new episode will be displayed so that viewers can discern exactly which episode they want to watch. The catch-up episodes of the Bold and the Beautiful as well as the weekly, new episodes of the television series will be available to watch from 9 October 2019. “Our South African viewers have been asking for The Bold and the Beautiful to come back. Now we’re very happy to announce the good news,” says 13-time Emmy-Award winning Executive Producer and Head Writer, Bradley Bell. “Thank you for welcoming us back onto your screens.” The Bold and the Beautiful is the most-watched U.S. produced daytime drama series in the world. The Bold and the Beautiful debuted on the CBS Television Network on March 23, 1987 and is currently in its 33rd season.  It is produced by Bell-Phillip Television Productions, Inc. Video Play can be downloaded from the App Store or Google Play, or accessed via www.videoplay.co.za. Video Play data bundles are also available to users for as little as R35 for 1GB, specifically designed to make streaming content on the platform affordable. This article was published in partnership with Video Play.