Many DStv subscribers are complaining about they have been overcharged by hundreds of rands in recent months. “This month my account was debited by R934 more than it should have been. I called to escalate the complaint, but they did nothing about it,” one DStv price lock subscriber said. Another user said he was usually billed R954 per month for DStv Premium, but then moved his account to the more affordable Compact Plus package. To his surprise, his August bill nearly doubled to R1,781.46, and in September he was billed R1,642.19. Despite being promised by MultiChoice that the problem would be rectified, he once again received an inflated bill in October. Another user said she was billed double her normal monthly subscription in August, and despite trying to resolve the issue she was billed double again in September. There is a flood of similar complaints on websites like HelloPeter and DStv’s own online discussion board. MultiChoice spokesperson Benedict Maaga told MyBroadband that the launch of additional services over the years created complexity in the company’s billing. This complexity, he said, makes it more difficult for DStv customers to understand their billing. “There were different payment dates for different services, which led to inconsistent information on how much to pay and a need to pay multiple times a month,” he said. “Following feedback from our customers, we have now consolidated all services on a customer’s account resulting in easier billing”. The billing changes means there is now “only one amount to pay and only one payment required each month”. Maaga said DStv subscribers now have the flexibility to add services like Box Office rentals or upgrade their package during the month, and only pay for those changes on their next payment date. The higher debit amounts this month, he added, also cater for the updates to DStv Price Lock. “Previously, the hardware portion of the Price Lock instalment was billed in arrears, now it is billed in advance, bringing it in line with how subscription is billed each month,” he said. “We’d like to assure our customers that this change will have no impact on the overall cost of your Price Lock contract, which remains at the price you signed up for.” He urged DStv subscribers to look at their account info at www.dstv.co.za/account-info for further clarity.