Major smartphone manufacturers recently launched new smartwatch models to accompany their high-end handsets, the most recent of which was Huawei’s Watch GT 2. Apple also announced its new Watch Series 5 this month, and Samsung unveiled its Galaxy Watch Active2 earlier this year, which is a refreshed version of the original Galaxy Watch. These devices are not designed just to be companions to users of the same smartphone brand, but also function as standalone smart devices which are compatible with many devices. We compared the specifications, features, and pricing of these three new smartwatches to determine which offers the best value. Out of these three new devices, the only one which currently has South African pricing is the Apple Watch Series 5. US pricing is available for the Samsung Galaxy Watch Active2, while the Huawei Watch GT 2 was announced during the company’s Mate 30 Series launch with European pricing. This can make it difficult to directly compare the devices, but the list below offers a rough idea of the differences between the three products. Note that each product is available in two different sizes, and only the GPS version of the Apple Watch Series 5 will be available in South Africa. Pricing The specifications for the largest models of each smartwatch are listed below. Each of these smartwatches has its own unique features, the most obvious of which is integration with their respective ecosystems. Huawei’s new Watch GT 2 maintains the impressive two-week battery life of its predecessor – an impressive advantage over its competitors, especially considering the addition of a microphone and always-on display. The Apple Watch Series 5 now also has an always-on display and 18-hour battery life, along with fall detection and a built-in compass. Samsung’s Galaxy Watch Active2 is similar to the previous-generation Galaxy Watch Active, but it now includes a digital rotating dial with haptic feedback. It is important to note that each of these devices requires applications from their respective manufacturers to be installed in order to work correctly, and the Apple hardware is especially locked to its own ecosystem. All of these features cater to different users, and the wide variety of functionality offered by modern wearables means that each buyer will want something different.