Many employees know the frustration of managing a badly-behaved printer. Your office should not need to worry about the basic tasks of printing, scanning, copying and faxing documents. However, this is a very common business problem, particularly for small enterprises. Any business can make the process as painless as possible by turning to HP as the experts in business printing solutions. HP is renowned for offering a wide range of tools to cater to a business’s needs, and the new HP OfficeJet Pro 9023 All-in-One Printer is a strong addition to its product line-up. The OfficeJet Pro 9023 uses HP Thermal Inkjet Printing Technology to produce printing speeds that are comparable to those measured in ISO laser printers. In general office mode, the printer can put out up to 24 ppm in black and 20 ppm colour print. Printing quality in black allows for 1,200 x 1,200 rendered dpi, while colour on HP Advance Photo paper can reach 4,800 x 1,200 optimised dpi. Additionally, users can also scan both sides of a page at once. The OfficeJet Pro 9023 smart printer is easy to set up and includes four ink cartridges that are simple to install. The input tray can hold up to 250 sheets of paper, with an additional multipurpose tray providing space for 250 extra sheets. Paper sizes that are supported include A4, A5, A6, and B5. Card, photo, and envelope standards are also supported. HP has included a built-in Wi-Fi router for wireless printing in the OfficeJet Pro 9023, which also supports self-healing Wi-Fi. If required, however, the printer also comes with several ports for wired connectivity. This includes a USB 2.0 port, a USB host port, an Ethernet port, and two RJ-11 modem ports. The best-in-class HP Smart Mobile Print app brings enhanced mobile features for easy printing, scanning, and copying of documents straight from your Android or iOS smart device. With Smart Tasks – the first-in-class mobile solution that automates scanning and printing tasks – you can organise documents faster, use automatic two-sided printing, scan to the cloud or email, and more. You can even create editable, searchable documents by scanning from your phone or printer. HP products are made with sustainability in mind. The OfficeJet Pro 9023 is no exception. The printer’s hardware is designed for efficient energy use, ensuring that no power goes wasted. Parts of the printer are also manufactured from recycled printers and other electronics, and its ink cartridges are also recyclable. The HP OfficeJet Pro 9023 All-in-One Printer provides smart and powerful printing solutions suited for any office environment. To find your nearest local reseller, click here. Watch the unboxing of the HP OfficeJet Pro 9023 below. <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> This article was published in partnership with HP.