Wispeco Aluminium is the largest aluminium extrusion company in South Africa. The company recently suffered issues after implementing SYSPRO ERP for its branches across the country. The company’s IT team tried to work out the issues themselves, but after failing to do so despite trying various things, Wispeco contacted Sintrex for assistance. Wispeco had assumed that the issues were pertaining to the company’s network, despite not having accurate statistics to confirm this. Sintrex executed a complete audit and investigation into the network, server, and server environment of Wispeco’s network. “The question is always ‘who audits the auditors’ and I needed somebody that could give me an independent and thorough assessment of my network,” said Pieter Heyns, Head of IT at Wispeco. According to Heyns, Sintrex was able to pinpoint exactly what Wispeco’s problems were. “They gave us very good feedback and an action plan we could use,” said Heyns. Sintrex was able to determine that Wispeco’s issues were not with their network, which was found to be stable after extensive testing. Instead, the latency issues were situated within the server. Sintrex also managed to uncover that Wispeco was not being allocated the bandwidth it was paying for at one of its sites. “From the account management side, through to the technical teams, Sintrex is a very professional organisation with very capable people,” said Heyns. “You need facts to make decisions, and Sintrex was able to provide us with these facts.” Heyns said that he would definitely recommend Sintrex. “The way the Cape Town and Joburg offices work together, their strong focus on project management, the fact that they give you regular updates, and they way they push for results were all very positive to me.” Watch the full case study below. <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> When businesses face lag and latency issues, many automatically assume that the issue lies with their network. In truth, there are various possibilities in such scenarios, which makes it important to use a knowledgeable third-party to determine the root of your issues. Sintrex is a leading South African infrastructure management company that offers end-to-end IT solutions and services. They have proven that they are capable of assessing and diagnosing issues in a business’s IT systems, as is proven in the below case study. Sintrex is committed to offering the best IT solutions, and strives to offer superior service and results to its customers. This article was published in partnership with Sintrex.