Mobility within office environments is a crucial aspect to many businesses. Imagine working for a car dealership, when a customer phones to ask for the price of a specific vehicle. Not having the price on hand, the easiest solution would be to walk to the car and see the price in the window, but your customer now has to be put on hold or you take the call with you on your cordless phone which risks losing the call when going out of range of the base station and worse, losing the business for good. Nology, the Platinum Distributor for Yealink in South Africa, is proud to introduce Yealink’s highly anticipated W80B Multi-Cell DECT solution which solves the above problem, as well as many others. Forgoing the technical jargon, Multi-Cell DECT simply means that a cordless phone can “roam” between various base stations without losing a call. Yealink’s W80B Multi-Cell DECT solution allows up to 100 handsets to be connected to up to 30 base stations, all seamlessly handing over calls and allowing users to roam as they please. Taking the DECT base station range into account, (up to 300M with clear line of sight) this provides a massive area of coverage when fully populated! Of course, most businesses will not just deploy phones over a large flat surface, and the Yealink W80B Multi-Cell DECT solution is ideal for bridging the coverage dead spots in multi-level buildings. Unlike Wi-Fi based cordless phones which are prone to interference and poor user experience if the Wi-Fi infrastructure is incorrectly set up, DECT remains the wireless technology of choice for high voice quality, low interference and secure VoIP communications. Multi-Cell DECT, combined with Yealink’s industry leading design is also revolutionising the traditional office environment, by bringing DECT to your desktop and conference phones! As part of the refinements expected later this year, Yealink will offer a comprehensive DECT cordless office VoIP solution. This is great news for both installers and end users, as it means install times are cut down, the requirement for trenching/trunking is significantly reduced, and there’s a cost saving by reducing the need for installation of Ethernet points. Alex Bantjes, VoIP Product Manager at Nology says: “The Multi-Cell DECT market has traditionally been dominated by only a few brands, at an almost unaffordable price point. Not only will Yealink disrupt this trend, but also introduces a new facet of mobility to your desktop and conference phones which is completely unique to the market. Nology is eager to empower our partners with Yealink Multi-Cell DECT which will usher in a new era of cost effective, high coverage, quick deployment VoIP devices” Yealink’s W80B Multi-Cell DECT works with most of the existing Yealink cordless handsets and customers who are relying on Yealink’s DECT products already can simply make the switch to Multi-Cell by replacing the DECT base station, with minimal disruption to their business operations. Contact Nology today to see how we can help you build you DECT solution. Yealink is a global leading provider of unified communication & collaboration solutions. Focusing on research and development, Yealink also insists on innovation and creation. With the outstanding technical patents of cloud computing, audio, video and image processing technology, Yealink has built up a panoramic collaboration solution of audio and video conferencing by merging its cloud services with a series of endpoints products. As one of the best providers in more than 140 countries and regions including the US, the UK and Australia, Yealink ranks No.1 in the global market share of SIP phone shipments. Founded in 2001, Nology is a specialist value-added distributor of converged IP solutions to service providers, network operators, systems integrators and resellers across Southern Africa. Nology represents, distributes and supports some of the top international Broadband, Wireless, Networking and VoIP brands and is continually expanding our product offering. We have a strong reputation and proven track record in our industry and are trusted by leading ISPs and network operators across Southern Africa. This article was published in partnership with Nology.