To many, the Chromebook and its integrated features seem a foreign notion. However, the cloud and the Google structure on which the concept is based is probably already unknowingly being deployed by many employees in a personal and professional capacity – think cloud and Google Chrome. Locally, Acer has partnered with Google to become the industry leader in the Chromebook market as the product enters the commercial scene. “We’ve become accustomed to the Chromebook’s presence in classrooms where the robust build, easy access to an array of educational tools and longer lasting battery has made it the perfect partner for educators,” says Ivan Eve, Chrome Enterprise Leader at Acer Africa. According to Eve the next logical step for the brand was to move into the commercial space and thus far the success has been evident, with large corporations easily adopting the change. The Chromebook solution provides enterprises with three key selling points: trusted security across devices, increased productivity and time efficiency. As a cloud native operating system, Chromebook is secure by design, protecting over three billion devices worldwide daily. One of the unique software management strategies related to the system is Sandboxing; a built-in layer of security which locates and isolates harmful threats and significantly lowers the vulnerability of the device. “The use of this security mechanism is by far one of the most undersold yet crucial in the Chromebook make up,” says Eve. “Via artificial intelligence, an application or document is isolated and then scanned for any harmful behaviour.” This entire application is run in the back end as the threat is removed with no interruption. The Chrome security approach is multi-layered, with security updates applied every six weeks and security patches every two weeks. “With the introduction of the internet of things and Industry 4, businesses are obligated to pre-empt threats, as the latest statistics reveal that 31% of businesses have been victim to cyber-attacks.” With the recent economic pressure the country is experiencing, introducing the Chromebook allows enterprises to save up to R7000 per user per year. This saving is attributed to the following: The startup time of a Chromebook device is around five seconds, making it one of the key selling points of the unit. Eve points out that all updates and syncing are done automatically via cloud-based user workflows, further adding to productivity levels. “This avoids any unnecessary downtime waiting for lengthy updates and having to restart to apply changes,” said Eve. Should a unit be required to go through a manual repair phase, a ‘Grab ‘n Go’ system is available where Chromebooks are available to use any time as part of a ‘loan bank’. “Employees can grab any of these Chrome devices and log in through their corporate account and start working on their last project immediately. It is said that it takes longer for an employee to walk to the loan bank than it takes to start up the device and continue where they left off.” “It simply is a game changer in terms of efficiency.” Increased productivity with the adoption of the Chromebook is linked to the Granular Control system; an extensive management operation whereby the information technologists are able to apply policies and procedures from a central point and also customise these to specific groups or teams within the business – again with no down time for users. South Africa currently leads the way for Chrome OS on the continent, but other African countries like Kenya and Nigeria are fast appreciating the benefits of the operating system and joining hands with premium partners and resellers in order to apply the best local solutions. “It is encouraging to take build on the success the Chromebook in the education sector over the last several years and use these lessons and insight and apply to the commercial arena,” said Eve. “Adding to the business case we will see Students enter the workplace with a concise knowledge of the Chrome operating system and its benefits, ultimately becoming ambassadors for the system.” Click here to learn more about Chromebrooks through Acer. This article was published in partnership with Acer.