Fast and reliable Enterprise Internet connectivity is crucial for any modern business. The capacity and speed of the connectivity solution you purchase is a only segment of the assessment a business must make before selecting a service provider, however, and as important are the Service Levels Agreements and quality of customer service you will receive. Launched as XDSL in 2002, STEM has been involved in the connectivity industry since the introduction of broadband in South Africa and prides itself on delivering excellent service to its clients. The company boasts immense knowledge and experience in catering to the connectivity needs of South African businesses and enterprises, and has rolled out refined offerings for scalable business needs supported by an expansive national network. STEM’s product offerings include Connectivity and Internet, Cloud, Business Voice, and Residential packages. The company is growing increasingly popular for heir excellent MPLS and SDWAN solutions. Included in the connectivity solutions STEM offers are Enterprise and Business Fibre, Licensed Microwave connectivity – as well as managed APN services and DSL. STEM Commercial Director Danie Fourie states that the company is dedicated to delivering on its service promises. “We do not attach our brand to any service that we are not confident in. Offering a service that we can support is of the utmost importance,” said Fourie. Fourie added that STEM is conscious of the importance of businesses staying online every hour of every day. STEM therefore only partners with the most stable, reliable, and reputable organisations in the market to minimize or eliminate potential downtime – while providing excellent service and transparency. “We believe that our Service Level Agreements give us the upper hand in the network provider space. Corporate and Enterprise clients can seldom afford downtime and we go to great lengths to keep them connected, as we truly understand that a loss of connectivity equates to loss of income,” said Fourie. STEM’s services are backed by a highly-skilled and professional support team that keeps the company at the forefront of developments in the industry. With a combination of vast technical expertise and innovative problem-solving skills, STEM’s team has helped to make it stand out as a network provider. “Our team of exceptionally-skilled support agents treat each client with respect and each query with great professional urgency,” said Fourie. STEM is currently offering a discounted enterprise fibre package, which features: The package is priced at R8,999 per month on a 36-month contract, with no installation costs. To view STEM’s range of solutions, visit their website. This article was published in partnership with STEM.