Nedbank is 100% committed to harnessing the power of digital to not only ensure that clients benefit more while banking less, but also to help improve every area of their lives. Having launched a brand-new banking app (Nedbank’s Money App) in October 2017 and a matching online banking channel in the second half of 2018, Nedbank provides its customers with two world class channels, built on latest tech and security standards. The growing popularity of these channels, in particular the Nedbank Money App, is evidence that the bank’s approach to digitise in response to client needs is working. First in market features include Scan to Pay, a QR payment solution that integrates across Zapper, Snapscan and Masterpass, the Home Buying Tool kit and the digital concierge service ‘HeyNed’. Since the beginning of January 2019, an average of more than 104,000 personal and business users have logged debit order disputes via the Nedbank Money App every month, while more than 96,000 users use the App to change their ATM limits every month. Also, around 19,000 Nedbank cardholders use it to temporarily freeze and unfreeze their cards every month. The success of the Money App and new online banking channel is, in large part, due to Nedbank’s commitment to constantly add and upgrade features. We urge all of our clients, who haven’t done so already, to move over to these new channels so they can experience the full digital experience the bank has to offer. Simply download the Nedbank Money App or access online banking and follow the registration process. Some of the most notable new additions over the past 12 months include: In addition to our electronic banking channels, we also offer information and self-service functionality for new and existing clients on our Nedbank website. The ‘Apply’ functionality on the site enables new customers to apply for a personal loan and open a bank account seamlessly from the comfort of their home. This article was published in partnership with Nedbank.