MiRO’s IP Convergence conference (IP-CON) is back and bigger than ever before and is the perfect event to discover new IP based technologies that will prepare your business for the future. IP-CON is designed as an information and networking opportunity for ICT decision makers at small to medium businesses and large enterprises as well as ISP’s, resellers, and technology integrators. To deliver a top-class industry event, MiRO has partnered with leading technology manufactures to display and demonstrate their current and future communication and connectivity technologies. Local and international speakers, visionaries, experts and leaders will discuss their first-hand knowledge of the industry and a glimps of what the future holds. From the latest Wi-Fi 6 and 5G solutions to software-defined networking and IoT, IP-CON is not to be missed. IP-CON will be taking place on the 30th of October at the Vodaworld conference centre in Midrand. The event will open with keynote speakers from internationally renowned brands, such as, Cambium Networks, MikroTik and Uniview and will take a closer look at the various technologies and services MiRO has to offer. Later in the day, there will be several breakaways and deep-dive sessions on the latest solutions available in Wi-Fi, Fixed Broadband Wireless, IP Surveillance, VoIP Unified Communications and Networking. Some of the topics to be discussed during the technical deep dives include: Network security in today’s digital age is something that simply cannot be ignored, so what are some of the simple measures that you can implement on your Layer 3 Networking devices to beef up security? Enhance your business by utilising your Wi-Fi solution to capitalise on the power of social media for targeted marketing. Get the most out of your software and hardware to enrich your VoIP service offering. Take a look  at all of the technical deep-dive sessions on offer, these are aimed at equipping you with the skills and knowledge required to take your business to the next level. To better visualise the solutions on offer, there will be an exhibition area where delegates can see real examples of the products and technologies from MiRO. Join MiRO as their industry specialists help you navigate the endless possibilities of Fixed Wireless Networking, Wi-Fi, IP Security, Voice-over-IP, and Wired Networking. This event is not to be missed as you will get a unique opportunity to interact with leading industry experts who will provide you with best practices, market insights, a sneak peek at some of the latest technologies and advice on the best solutions for you and your clients. Click here to book your space – use the promo code IPCON2019 to qualify for a buy one get one free discount. This article was published in partnership with MiRO.