AfricaCom 2019 featuring AfricaTech is only five weeks away, and with a multitude of content on offer, here is a quick round-up of the top reasons why professionals in the technology and telecommunications space, and just about anyone who has an interest in how these sectors are shaping our collective future, should attend. The event takes place 12-14 November 2019 at the Cape Town International Convention Centre (CTICC), South Africa. Two separate exhibition halls to accommodate the vast array of companies and organisations involved in delivering connectivity, along with some of the technological advancements that are defining how we work, live and play. In its 22nd year, the event has attracted some of the biggest global brands, along with a host of innovative challengers. Here’s what’s on offer: The Connectivity Hall – home to the worlds of connectivity and communications, enterprise digital transformation, ICT policy, broadcasting and digital media. Delegates can meet up with China Mobile, Vodacom, Maraphone, World Telecom Labs, Huawei, Liquid Telecom, Wiseasy, Ericsson, Airtel Business, Avanti, ZTE, Anritsu, and Openserve along with a host of other telecoms providers who are making it happen. The Connectivity Hall is where visitors will also discover satellite providers, wireless organisations and innovators that are delivering software solutions that disaggregate hardware and software for a collaborative approach to connectivity. AfricaTech – The Home of IT and Enterprise Digital Transformation. This Hall located in CTICC 2, is dedicated to IT and enterprise digital transformation. The floorspace is split into different technology zones along with premium conferences dedicated to IoT, Blockchain, AI, Fintech, Cloud Computing and Data Centres. Also, network features, technology and industry specific deep dive sessions and a host of new social spaces. Meet the likes of, Cassava Fintech, Intel, Deloitte, Darktrace, Polymorph, Bluebridge One, Core Vision, Paxful, Red Hat, TPP, Wipro, Truphone, and banking institutions that are leading digital transformation in South Africa such as FNB and ABSA. World class speakers and experts who will share their knowledge with conference goers.  This premium content is also FREE to all registered visitors. A gathering of industry VIPs who meet to discuss and formulate solutions to many of the challenges facing Africa’s digital progression. Start-ups and entrepreneurs are the fuel driving the future of Africa and each year AfricaCom featuring AfricaTech, attracts some of the brightest minds and young companies that are creating world class solutions to local challenges. AHUB over in the AfricaTech hall for example, will present some exciting options for investors who have keen eyes on the technological future of tomorrow. AfricaCom featuring AfricaTech, is the place for local and global colleagues to meet to entrench relationships and partnerships, form new friendships and discover new ideas. While digital communication is efficient and far-reaching, there is much to be said for face-to-face contact, which AfricaCom featuring AfricaTech, more than amply provides. All work and no play would probably be incredibly dull so, the organisers of the event ensure there are plenty of opportunities for delegates and visitors to shake off the rigours of a busy workday with happy hour events at the AfricaTech hall, and of course, AfricaCom’s famous AFest party. The highly anticipated AfricaCom Awards night also plays host to a well-attended after party. There is no doubt about it, AfricaCom is the biggest and most successful marketplace for doing business. Each year, a raft of business deals and partnerships are constructed. Some are pre-planned but, many are new contracts concluded as a result of attending the world’s largest event of its kind and being exposed to fresh thinking and new suppliers. AfricaCom featuring AfricaTech, is expecting to break attendance records this year, attracting more than 15,000 visitors. This is driven in part by the growing dependence on digital but, also due to the superb content that is on offer in 2019. It is certainly an event whose importance and influence can be underestimated, but shouldn’t be. Register for free here!