Failing to implement necessary changes to Eskom soon will result in continued weak growth and investment for South Africa. This is according to Employment and Labour Minister Thulas Nxesi, who was speaking at the Nedlac Annual Summit in Johannesburg. “Any economic growth is invariably tied to a competitive electricity price, security of supply and a sustainable state-owned utility that will require significant restructuring,” said Nxesi. Nxesi added that government and Eskom needed to prioritise the following: The first two priorities are set to be announced in October. The deadline for announcing a new CEO is 31 October, while Minister of Public Enterprises Pravin Gordhan said in September that Eskom’s rescue plan would be announced “within weeks”. Nxesi also said in his speech that the government is looking at how Eskom can be used to increase job creation in South Africa. “Government is carefully looking at state-owned entities which are a catalyst for jobs, and in particular Eskom, which is critical.” While Nxesi has urged that the restructuring of Eskom must happen quickly, and Gordhan claims that a rescue plan will be announced soon, Moody’s has said that fixing Eskom will be a complex task, meaning it will take time for the government and Eskom to agree to a plan. “For us, there will be only one plan and that will be the one that both the government and the company agreed to,” said Lucie Villa, Moody’s vice president and lead sovereign analyst for South Africa. “Knowing the complexity of the issue, we know first that it will be an iterative process and that it takes time. So our view has been that is takes more than a few months to sort out certain issues.” Villa added that Moody’s will only be positioned to judge South Africa’s economic outlook once a long-term plan for Eskom has been confirmed. Moody’s next assessment is set to take place on 1 November – weeks after Finance Minister Tito Mboweni’s mid-term budget. In August, a vision and strategy document was leaked which outlined the next steps for restructuring Eskom. According to the document, the first step has already been announced by President Ramaphosa, and involves splitting Eskom into three subsidiary companies for generation, transmission, and distribution. The second step involves making the transmission company a non-Eskom entity. It would instead become a separate, state-owned company under the Department of Public Enterprises. These two steps would take about five years to complete, but further steps could also be implemented at a later stage. Step 3 would involve the unbundling of former Eskom generators, as well as a limited number of public-private partnership generators, independent power producers, and small-scale, embedded generators. Finally, Eskom’s distribution business would be transformed into several independent, state-owned regional electricity distributors.