Microsoft recently launched its new lineup of Surface hardware, including the dual-screen Surface Neo and the refreshed Surface Pro 7. These devices historically have not shipped to South Africa, and local fans of Microsoft’s hardware have been subsequently been forced to import the devices from the United States and other markets. This could change, however, as Microsoft is interested in bringing its Surface device lineup to South Africa at some point in the future. Speaking in an interview with MyBroadband, Microsoft corporate vice president for Worldwide Sales and Marketing: Consumer and Devices, Ami Silverman said that the company was certainly considering launching the devices in South Africa. “We would absolutely consider expanding to South Africa in the future, but we don’t have a date to share yet,” Silverman said. “Our intent and desire are to have Surface in South Africa.” Silverman added that Microsoft was assessing the market composition in South Africa to help determine which devices it would bring to the country if it launched Surface locally. “It is definitely something that we are working through to have here as part of the equation,” she said. “We have a wonderful history of devices in South Africa that has been going on for a very long time with our local partners and multinational partners.” She added that there are a number of factors which could affect whether Surface is launched in South Africa, as well as which products could be rolled out locally. These include potential sales volumes and the affordability of the hardware for local consumers. “We are at a stage where we will continue to make decisions for the foreseeable future that will allow us to continue to think about how we go to market across all product and business types,” Silverman said. “We will look at the size of the premium market in South Africa and what our competition is doing as well.” Microsoft’s Surface devices offer high-end specifications and the latest hardware features in a compact and modern form factor. The Surface Pro 7 is the latest in the company’s laptop-tablet hybrid product range, offering USB Type-C connectivity, a high-resolution touch screen, a built-in stand, and a detachable keyboard cover. Microsoft has refreshed its Surface Laptop 3 with modern connectivity options and fast charging, and it has also launched a Surface Pro X device which runs on an ARM chipset for increased battery life and power efficiency. The impressive design and performance of these products could make them very attractive among South African professionals, and the upcoming Surface Phone and dual-screen Surface Neo laptop could appeal to local buyers with a taste for unique form factors and features. Of course, if Microsoft does opt to bring its Surface hardware lineup to South Africa, it is not guaranteed that all of the hardware would make it local shores; the company may opt to hold back its more experimental products for key markets such as the United States.