Thousands of DStv subscribers have joined a petition against DStv’s plan to cut three popular channels from its offering. DStv recently announced that it will cut three popular channels from its network at the end of October – History, Crime + Investigation, and Lifetime. These three channels have been available to DStv Premium and DStv Compact Plus subscribers for years. The contract term for these channels, which are all provided by the American broadcasting company A+E Networks, ends on 1 November 2019. MultiChoice senior manager for corporate communications Benedict Maaga told MyBroadband that the decision formed part of a plan to refresh the DStv lineup. He said the fact that the contract term for these three channels came to an end gave MultiChoice an opportunity to evaluate the value it offers subscribers. Angry DStv subscribers have launched a petition on Change.org in support of A+E Networks, trying to convince MultiChoice to reconsider its decision. According to the petition, History, Crime + Investigation, and Lifetime are amazing channels which are loved by the South African DStv community. “This decision is illogical and clearly shows they (DStv) only worry about their profits and not quality of shows for their customers,” the petition states. It added that A+E Networks has “amazing local productions”. A+E Networks previously said these shows include local programming such as Crime Stories SA, Don’t Tell the Bride SA, and Loved Like Crazy. The petition states that A+E Networks has also opened up an African office which is growing and creating local employment. “This will all come to an end if these channels are cut,” the petition stated. As part of its announcement about cutting the History, Crime + Investigation, and Lifetime channels, MultiChoice said it would soon announce two new channels. These two channels, the pay-TV operator said, include “an established global brand and a new innovative brand”. “Both channels will bring exciting new titles and genres that viewers will really enjoy, including blue-chip documentaries, history, and factual reality shows,” MultiChoice said. The company added that it continues to increase its investment in local shows and content, which it said “have great resonance with customers and are a key driver of engagement”.