Telkom is decommissioning its old telephone network and migrating clients away from services that run over copper cables. Shutting down Telkom’s copper network has far-reaching consequences – it is not only landline phones and ADSL that will be affected, but also traditional fax machines, some alarm systems, and speed point machines. Call centres that still use PBX systems which rely on Telkom’s copper network will also be affected. Many call centres use Basic Rate Interface (BRI) and Primary Rate Interface (PRI) services from Telkom. Like ADSL, these will stop working when Telkom shuts down its copper network. Telkom CEO Sipho Maseko said in May that the company plans to decommission its old copper network in the next five years. Part of the plan is migrating subscribers onto alternative services. DSL broadband and landline telephone subscribers are being moved to fibre-based services where available. Where fibre services are not available, Telkom offers clients “look-alike” products on its 3G and LTE network. Telkom has also said that it is working on a solution to cater for fax, alarms, and speed point services that run on copper cables. For this, it is testing an Internet voice service called OTTV. Similarly, businesses using BRI or PRI services are being migrated to Telkom’s “Next Generation Voice” products. The company said that this is part of its network modernisation programme. “We have been working with our enterprise customers, through BCX, who still have legacy voice systems,” Telkom said. Telkom said that it is providing clients with a migration path from analogue lines, BRI, and PRI to one of its Next-Gen Voice systems. Next-Gen Voice services that Telkom will offer as a migration path include: “These next generation services are delivered via fibre as the underlying transmission service, but in areas where fibre is not available Telkom
also has numerous alternative wireless access services available,” the company said. The migration is already underway, Telkom said, with clients choosing to switch to its Next Generation Fibre and Voice services due to its benefits: greater reliability, scalability, and cost. Call centres can keep their numbers when they migrate from copper to fibre-based networks, and continue to make and receive calls as normal. “In the case of call centres, many of them have already migrated to next-generation voice and are already noticing the benefits,” said Telkom.