Aruba Instant On APs offers ultra-fast performance and built-in security that’s ideal for today’s business-ready apps and devices. These devices boast fast 802.11ac Wave 2, secure employee and guest access as well as free, easy-to-use web and mobile app management. Built to withstand the elements, the Aruba Instant On AP17 outdoor access point is the ideal solution for expanding coverage and signal strength for any wireless network. The outdoor-rated enclosure is designed for harsh outdoor conditions such as high and low temperatures, rain or high winds. Aruba gives users the connected network they need to take their business to the next level. The Aruba Instant On AP15 is designed for small business deployments with high-traffic and increased performance demands like hi-tech start-ups, animation and design firms or co-working spaces. It’s built for high-density workplaces where mobile is preferred and the increasing number of endpoints, cloud apps, and higher volumes of data must be able to deliver the best possible performance. To create a memorable guest experience, Aruba lets users create a customised guest access page to show off their brand. The Aruba Instant On AP12 is designed for medium-density small business environments like medical offices, cafés, restaurants and boutique hotels. It also delivers Wi-Fi that keeps business and visitor traffic separate to make sure user networks are always secure. The Aruba Instant On AP11 offers Wi-Fi that works right out of the box for small retail stores and home offices. The Aruba Instant On Desktop APs are just the right size for in-room convenience in businesses or home offices. The AP11D is designed for flexible and easy deployments which require an enhanced in-room Wi-Fi experience such as boutique hotels, small offices or doctor’s offices. Set up, monitor and manage Wi-Fi networks from anywhere, at any time. The Aruba Instant On mobile app delivers complete control from the palm of one’s hand, without licence or subscription fees. Users have access to the same easy to use features on a bigger screen. Aruba offers cloud-based access that means users can manage their network from the browser of their choice, from anywhere. Aruba Instant On delivers a combination of world-class performance, network security and simple setup and management software to meet any small business’ need. Users will also get premium hardware and software that’s scalable, cost-effective and supports the growth of emerging apps and IoT. Click here to visit Duxbury Networking’s website to find the right Aruba Instant On solution for your office. This article was published in partnership with Duxbury Networking.