South Africans are mad for mobile. We are constantly on our phones and especially like engaging via text. That is why many companies choose text-based USSD to facilitate mechanics for competition entries and performing surveys. This method, although valuable, comes with a few glaring technical limitations like a short character length and frustrating timeouts. A solution which offers solutions to these restrictions is readily available, however: virtual assistants. With the benefit of engagement through images, video, voice notes, and pin location, virtual assistants can truly enhance the target audience’s experience of a company’s interactions. Virtual assistants are designed for: It is therefore evident that the natural next step for better mobile marketing should include virtual assistants. Mobitainment is a leading expert in mobile marketing in South Africa. Amongst its achievements, Mobitainment was ranked the number 1 Technology Provider in Africa in the MMA Smarties Business Impact Index in 2018. Managing director at Mobitainment Candice Goodman says their solutions combine both the old and new to cover as large of a market as possible. “With the increase in smartphone usage in South Africa, we recommend providing a choice of the best of both, USSD and WhatsApp entry mechanics for competitions, especially those aimed at the mass market,” Goodman says. The company’s recent award-winning campaign for Royco used WhatsApp to capture till slips that could be read automatically to detect whether loyalty programme members had purchased Royco products and then be rewarded with airtime in their always-on wallet. For its future WhatsApp needs, Mobitainment has partnered with CM.com, a conversational commerce platform that provides messaging channels, such as SMS, RCS, WhatsApp, and Apple Business Chat – combined with a customer data platform and other features. CM.com is also one of the first CPaaS platforms in the world with integrated payments functionality. “We have chosen to partner with CM.com as a WhatsApp Business solution provider that offers amazing service and pricing packages. We have found the platform to be reliable with a fast response and performance – nearing the response times of USSD but without the timeouts and character limitations,” Goodman says. “It allows us to offer our clients a multi-functional exchange of content for sending and receiving images, voice notes, video, documents and pin locations – allowing us to fulfil a wide variety of use cases for WhatsApp.” Sr. Business Development Manager at CM.com Stewart Mackay says “We sought a partnership with Mobitainment due to their strong knowledge, experience and history of creative & award-winning applications in the mobile marketing space in SA and across the continent. We knew that if Mobitainment can add the WhatsApp Business API to their existing toolset via the CM Business Messaging API, creative uses of the channel would result. Candy and her team know what they’re doing…it’s great to have them on board”. If your company requires effective mobile marketing packages, it is best to approach the tried and tested specialists. The alliance of CM.com and Mobitainment makes for a powerful ally in reaching and serving your desired audience. This article was published in partnership with CM.com.