President Cyril Ramaphosa has signed off a number of major new laws – including the controversial ‘internet censorship bill’. In a statement on Wednesday (2 October), the presidency said that the new laws include: It was not clear at the time of writing whether the laws had been promulgated and had officially come into effect. In addition, some parts of the legislation may only come into effect at a later date. While most of the new laws will likely be welcomed, one of the new bills has courted controversy as it made its way through the law-making process. The Film and Publications Amendment Bill – known as the ‘internet censorship bill’ by some of its opponents – aims to introduce a number of changes including harsher rules to protect children from disturbing and harmful content, and to regulate the online distribution of content such as films and games. Some of the other notable changes include: Some of the above changes have previously come under scrutiny from members of industry and the public, over concerns that it would be used as a means of censorship for online content. Speaking to BusinessTech in May 2019, Dominic Cull of specialised legal advice firm, Ellipsis, said that the bill is ‘extremely badly written’. He added that the introduction of the bill means that there is definite potential for abuse in terms of infringement of free speech. “One of my big objections here is that if I upload something which someone else finds objectionable, and they think it hate speech, they will be able to complain to the FPB,” he said. “If the FPB thinks the complaint is valid, they can then lodge a takedown notice to have this material removed. ” Cull said this was problematic as the FPB, which is appointed by government, should not be making decisions as to what is and isn’t allowed speech under the South African Constitution. “When we can see that the courts struggle with these issues, there’s no place for politicians directly appointed by a minister to deal with them,” he said.