Canon redefined the frontiers of photography and filmmaking when they launched their pioneering EOS R System in September 2018. Building on over three decades of continuous EOS innovation, the EOS R System is based around a pioneering lens mount which offers greater creative possibilities and even more dynamic ways of capturing every moment. It redefines the boundaries of photography and filmmaking. The EOS R System expands photographic possibilities in countless ways and currently includes the EOS R and EOS RP camera bodies as well as a range of lenses. Features that are synonymous with EOS – fast performance, superb ergonomics and superior, uncompromising, image quality – remain at the heart of the EOS R. Featuring innovative technology for photography and filmmaking alike, the EOS R allows all users to shoot and film in extremely low light with accurate focusing, thanks to Dual Pixel CMOS AF. Small and discreet, the EOS R gives flexibility, plus the advantage of silent shooting. It also offers the highest standard of movie output from any Canon EOS System camera, enabling filmmakers to take their storytelling to the next level in 4K with output in 10-bit over HDMI. The camera features an electronic viewfinder and extensive customisation, allowing the user to focus on the subject rather than the camera. The is EOS RP is a small, light and practical full frame mirrorless camera, for advanced amateurs looking to take a step-up into Canon’s revolutionary EOS R System. Ideal for travel, landscape and portrait photography and videography, the EOS RP promises greater potential opening up all the benefits of the EOS R System – including the world’s fastest autofocus[i]. As Canon’s smallest, lightest[ii] full frame digital interchangeable lens camera to date, it provides the ultimate blend of practicality and ease of use, with impressive image quality. The EOS RP also allows photographers and videographers to explore and utilise Canon’s full portfolio of EF and EF-S lenses. Photographers and videographers can also experience the full performance of their existing EF and EF-S lenses thanks to three EF-EOS R adapter options, with additional functionality when using the control ring or drop-in filter adapter. For more information please visit the Canon website or follow Canon on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram or LinkedIn.  This article was published in partnership with Canon.