SEACOM continues to experience an outage on its subsea cable system which is affecting various services in South Africa. The company issued an announcement to customers this morning about an outage on its subsea cable system that occurred last night at 22:00 GMT. This outage affects all linear transmission traffic on the SEACOM cable from South Africa, Mozambique, and the East Coast of Africa, to and from Europe. “Customers with IP or other managed network services out of Kenya and Uganda are also hard down,” SEACOM said. It added that customers with IP or other managed services out of Tanzania, Mozambique, and South Africa would remain unaffected. However, these customers could experience a slight increase in latency as traffic is routed over SEACOM’s west coast transmission links. “We are still investigating the cause of the outage, and the estimated time to repair, and will provide necessary updates as we have more information,” the company said. The latest outage follows complaints from SEACOM customers about regular outages, which included downtime of several hours earlier this month. One SEACOM customer, who asked not to be named, told MyBroadband that “there is not a week where SEACOM’s services do not go down”. The company’s CTO said they have many branches across South Africa, and that all these branches have connectivity and VoIP services from SEACOM. “We had numerous discussions about the poor quality of service from SEACOM and were assured that the problems were a thing of the past,” he said. “This is having severe and detrimental operational and financial implications on our company as our customers cannot place orders with us, and neither can we deliver to them.” SEACOM is up and running following a service-affecting outage on the SEACOM Subsea Cable System last night. All linear transmission traffic on the SEACOM Subsea Cable System from South Africa, Mozambique, and from the East Coast of Africa, to and from Europe has been restored. We are still investigating the cause of the outage and will provide necessary updates as we have more information.