South African fraudsters are becoming increasingly sophisticated at using social engineering to target unsuspecting victims. This is according to Ulrich Janse van Rensburg, Head of Fraud Strategy for Everyday Banking at Absa Group. “There is an upsurge in social engineering globally, and fraudsters use personal data from data breaches to impersonate banks,” said Janse van Rensburg. Rakesh Ranchod, Nedbank Executive for Card, Payments, and Transactional Customer Experience, concurred. “Clients are called and cohered into divulging sensitive information pertaining to their banking profile, bank cards or passwords which are in turn used to commit fraud against the clients’ accounts or access their banking profiles.” Janse van Rensburg said studies have shown that 86% of all consumer information has been compromised through spam emails and data breaches. Janse van Rensburg highlighted three banking scams that are particularly prevalent in South Africa at the moment: Janse van Rensburg also highlighted four preventative measures South Africans should take to protect themselves against fraudsters: Ranchod said that ATM fraud is another prevalent banking scam in South Africa at the moment. “Clients are being interfered with at ATMs, where they have their cards stolen and they compromise their PINs as they believe the ATM has retained their cards.” Ranchod said that South Africans should protect themselves by never accepting help from strangers at ATMs. “If you believe your card has been retained, call your bank immediately and block your card,” said Ranchod. Another serious threat to South Africans is card skimming. SABRIC acting CEO Susan Potgieter said that card skimming can happen anywhere, and South Africans should never assume that point-of-sale devices are safe to use – even in a trusted restaurant or store. Potgieter said that South Africans should ensure that their card is “dipped” into the PoS devices rather than swiped. They should also make sure that the card is inserted into the PoS device while you are present, and should not be distracted while the transaction takes place. She recommended that users enable payment notifications via SMS so they can see if they have been billed incorrectly or multiple times. SABRIC also recently warned South Africans about a scam affecting companies known as “Business Email Compromise.” The scam involves criminals impersonating high-ranking company staff and convincing junior employees to make payments to specific beneficiaries. By the time the employee realises they have been scammed, it is too late – as these criminals use bank accounts belonging to money mules. To protect against this scam, SABRIC recommended that South African businesses use multi-tiered risk mitigation strategies. It also offered a few basic rules to protect against the Business Email Compromise scam: