Black Friday 2019 is set to break last year’s records with a wider range of specials from more online and brick-and-mortar retailers in South Africa. 2018 was a record-breaking year for Black Friday sales in South Africa, with many retailers far exceeding their estimates. Takealot, for example, surpassed its entire Black Friday 2017 sales within 8 hours of its specials going live last year. The total transaction value for Black Friday 2018 on Takealot was over R196-million – a 125% year-on-year growth and a 127% growth in orders. Other online retailers, like TFG, reported similar growth. TFG CIO Brent Curry said they saw a 50% increase in online sales over Black Friday when compared to the same period in 2017. BankservAfrica said the impact of Black Friday is so significant that it helped to grow the South African economy in November 2018. “The real value of transactions grew by 0.3% between November and October and on a quarterly basis, the growth experienced was 0.2%,” said BankservAfrica’s Shergeran Naidoo. The organisation said there was 55% growth in online sales for Black Friday and 36.4% for Cyber Monday. BankservAfrica added that the average value of transactions declined as more retailers jumped on the Black Friday bandwagon. “The whole supply chain was put under pressure to produce bargains for retailers who then, in turn, passed on their savings to consumers,” BankservAfrica said. Black Friday preparation is in full swing for many online retailers, many of whom are promising great tech specials to local consumers. Dimension Data told MyBroadband that they have seen impressive growth in Black Friday promotions, and this year should be no different. Brian Rozenkrantz from Technomobi told MyBroadband that they are planning to disrupt the market with some great pricing. “We’ll focus on our strengths, which will be mobile products, including smartphones and mobile accessories,” Rozenkrantz said. “We have access to tablets, smart watches, gaming and IOT products as well. Our plan is to celebrate quite a range of products.” He is confident that Technomobi’s online shop and payment platforms will be able to handle the spike in traffic on Black Friday. “We have already done a few pre system checks and tests which rung no alarm bells. The system is ready,” he said. Loot CEO Greg Le Roux told MyBroadband is it planning to deliver massive savings to its customers and partners. He said the Black Friday weekend is the culmination of months of hard work to ensure everything work as expected. This includes discussions with suppliers that started six months before, of stock buy-ins and bulk shipments, of system checks and contingency planning, and sessions with logistics partners. “Weeks of work from multiple departments, different marketing strategies and discussions with affiliation partners are all needed to prepare for Black Friday,” he said.