From TVs to smartwatches, Takealot offers a huge range of tech products on its online store. The wide range of tech products consist of the latest offerings from leading international players such as Apple, Samsung, LG, and Dell – and are all available at great prices. Takealot’s streamlined search functionality also makes it easy to define the exact price, brand, and specifications of the device you are considering. This makes shopping quick and easy. An overview of several of the tech categories on Takealot is below. When it comes to TVs, Takealot shoppers can choose from hundreds of products from leading brands like Samsung, LG, Panasonic, and Hisense. This includes a selection of Full HD, 4K, and 8K TVs with LED, OLED, or QLED panels. Takealot also boasts a line-up of over 250 PC monitors, with well-known manufacturers like Acer, ASUS and Dell all stocking products for PC users. Smartphones from all the big brands can be found on Takealot, including Apple, Samsung, Huawei, Xiaomi, Sony, and Nokia. Flagship devices such as the iPhone 11 Pro, Galaxy Note 10, and Huawei P30 were all available on Takealot at launch – along with pre-orders for shoppers who wanted their devices on launch day. This range of choice extends to tablets and e-readers, with devices from Apple, Amazon, Samsung, and Huawei all stocked. Whether you own a desktop PC or a laptop, Takealot’s large range of hardware and software caters to both gamers and professional users. Motherboards, processors, RAM, graphics cards, storage drives, power supplies, cases, cooling fans, printers, keyboards, mice, cables, and adapters are all available for delivery to your door. Professional photographers will discover an extensive assortment of DSLR cameras, lenses, and camera gear like tripods, batteries, memory cards, and flashes from Canon, Nikon, Sony, and GoPro available on Takealot. Takealot also offers over 70 different drones on its online store, with drones available from as low as R399. Takealot offers deals on many of its tech products every day, so be sure to check in regularly for discounts and special offers. Visit the Takealot website to find out more. This article was published in partnership with Takealot.