Windows 10 continues to increase its market share as users upgrade from Windows 7 to Microsoft’s latest desktop operating system. Data from NetMarketShare shows that Windows 7’s market share has dipped under 30%, while Windows 10 has reached its highest ever market share at 52.38%. Windows 7’s market share has been declining throughout 2019, but this decline has been more pronounced over the past few months. A major contributing factor to this is the fact that Microsoft has set the end-of-life deadline for Windows 7 at 14 January 2020. Continued use of Windows 7 after the end-of-life deadline will leave users exposed to a variety of security vulnerabilities. For this reason, it is important that Windows 7 user numbers continue to drop – as it indicates that more users are becoming aware they need to upgrade their Windows 7 operating system before January 2020. NetMarketShare’s statistics show that this upgrade is happening at an accelerated pace. Windows 7’s market share has dropped by over 2% over the past month, and by over 7% in the second half of 2019. Meanwhile, Windows 10 has seen substantial gains in market share, up from 50.99% in August to 52.38% in September. Mac OS X 10.14 also saw surprising market share increases in September, with Apple adding over 1% of the market to its operating system. Below is how the market share of the top 5 desktop operating systems has changed since March 2019. Microsoft recently launched a series of devices, including its foldable smartphone – the Surface Duo – and the Surface Neo dual-screen laptop. The Surface Neo will use Microsoft’s new Windows 10X operating system, which is designed specifically to run on dual-screen computing devices. Windows 10X is essentially a modified version of Windows 10 rather than a completely new operating system, and takes advantage of the Surface Neo’s two displays to allow for superior multitasking. The Surface Duo foldable smartphone will not use a Microsoft operating system. Instead, it will be powered by Android – which will allow users to access popular apps such as the Google Play Store and WhatsApp.