The channels that businesses use to engage with customers substantially impact the way their brand is viewed, and according to conversational commerce platform CM.com, nothing delivers customer satisfaction quite like excellent communication. What’s more is that consumers today have a variety of options when it comes to engaging with any brand they interact with. According to several global studies, many consumers prefer engaging though text messaging above emails and calls, as it takes much less time and effort. Taking this into account, companies are challenged to rethink the way they engage with their customers. According to an article by Digital Doughnuts, virtual assistants have been on the rise in recent years, seeing widespread adoption. The reason for this is because virtual assistants – together with the rise in popularity of messaging apps, the accelerated development of all kinds of sensors and wearables, and of course with the rise of emerging technologies and Artificial Intelligence (AI) – are ushering a new way for businesses to communicate with the world, but more importantly with customers. Customers want to connect with businesses in the same way they chat with their friends and family — with fast, simple, and convenient messaging. The WhatsApp Business solution is a way for businesses to better manage conversations with their customers and provide useful information with those that choose to receive it Conversational Commerce platform CM.com has partnered with GotBot to connect clients to the official WhatsApp Business solution. GotBot is a social commerce and customer experience platform which uses AI and automates conversations between brands and their customers in the financial services, insurance, and retail sectors. “We automate responses and workflows across multiple messaging services like WhatsApp, SMS, Web-chat, Facebook Messenger, Twitter, WeChat, In-app and Instagram from a single dashboard,” Nick, CEO at GotBot said. Through this partnership, CM.com and GotBot provides companies with the WhatsApp Business solution allowing businesses to effectively engage with customers quickly and conveniently via the channel that is most convenient for them – a particularly useful solution for customer-centric brands. According to Nick Argyros, GotBot CEO, GotBot decided to partner with CM.com as a result of their customer-centric approach and competitive pricing relating to WhatsApp Business. “They help us provide customers with instant support, and to effectively engage with customers via the WhatsApp Business solution – all through an easy-to-use, always available communication channel,” said Argyros. According to Stewart Mackay, CM.com Senior Business Development Manager,  “Customers are demanding businesses to engage them via messaging channels like WhatsApp, while Businesses are looking to streamline these conversations efficiently, and without crippling development resources – our partnership with Gotbot enables these customers to do so, and we’re excited to work with Gotbot in achieving this”. CM.com is a Conversational Commerce platform that provides messaging channels, such as SMS, RCS, Whatsapp and Apple Business Chat combined with a Customer Data Platform and other platform features. CM.com is one of the first CPaaS platforms in the world with integrated Payments functionality. For more information, visit the CM.com website. This article was published in partnership with CM.com.