English football club Manchester City and leading mobile phone manufacturer TECNO have renewed their global, multi-year partnership. This means that TECNO will continue to be Manchester City’s Official Global Tablet and Handset Partner – a title it has held since 2016. “Manchester City prides itself on partnering with some of the world’s leading organisations, so we are thrilled to be announcing the renewal of our established partnership with TECNO Mobile,” said Damian Willoughby, senior VP of Partnerships at City Football Group. “During the past three years, we have collaborated on a number of exciting initiatives that has engaged, connected and entertained our global fanbase.” Managing Director of TECNO Mobile Stephan Ha said that TECNO is excited about what the partnership means for the company. “The partnership with Manchester City Football Club, the Premier League champions, will help further boost our brand recognition and name value as a leading mobile device company around the world,” said Ha. TECNO Mobile is a leading mobile phone brand that falls under Transsion holdings. It has a presence in about 60 emerging markets across the world, including South Africa – where it supplies affordable feature phones and smartphones that offer fantastic value-for-money. TECNO began offering its mobile devices in South Africa in 2017, and has already established itself as a popular brand that appeals to the mass market. TECNO prides itself on offering an extensive range of smartphones, each of which cater to the specific needs of different types of customers. The most popular TECNO smartphones in South Africa are the POP range. These are affordable smartphones that use Android Go and offer impressive features such as a camera of up to 8MP and a stylish gradient colour design. The range has proven to be a hit in the South African market thanks to its low price point. The POP 2 smartphone pricing will start at just R399 and will launch in December. Another popular phone with the younger generation is the TECNO Spark range, which offers stylish looks and great selfie features. The Spark 3 offers an AI-powered camera that uses intelligent image processing to beautify your images – even in poorly-lighted conditions. It also offers biometric security features, as well as a luminous crystal design that will make your phone feel like a truly premium product. Other impressive smartphones available from TECNO include the Camon 11 – an impressive mid-range smartphone that offers a powerful dual-camera system and a 16MP selfie camera – and the recently-launched Phantom 9. The Phantom 9 is the high-end offering from TECNO, and offers a variety of premium features including an AI-powered triple-lens camera and an in-display fingerprint sensor. The Phantom 9 also boasts a 6.4-inch AMOLED display, 6GB of RAM, 128GB ROM, and an octa-core processor – positioning it as a powerful yet affordable competitor to other premium smartphones. It is not yet available in South Africa. The POP 2 Air smartphone will launch in December 2019 through Vodacom, and will be available at retailers such as Pep, Mr Price Mobile, Ackermans, and The Foschini Group (TFG) stores. Numerous other TECNO smartphones are also available at selected TFG stores. Visit one of these stores today to learn more! This article was published in partnership with TECNO.